This book will go over the basics of the exploitation phase. Note I won't be teaching you
how to use tools, for the most part everything we do will be done manually so you can
get a deep understanding of the process. Once you know how things work at a deep
level you will want to replace some of your manual process with tools and automation.

Basic Hacking Known Vulnerabilities
Introduction
One of the first things you learn in hacker school is how to identify and exploit known
vulnerabilities. This may seem like a relatively simple step but you would be surprised at
the number of people who completely skip this phase of the exploitation cycle.

As shown above we start off by visiting the target application, next we attempt to
determine what software it is running. Once we find out what software and version the
endpoint is running we search on Google and other resources to see if it has
vulnerabilities or CVEs. After that we proceed to search for the exploit code and finally
we run the exploit code against the target.

Another version of this technique focuses on 1-days. In this cycle we start off by looking
at our threat feeds such as exploitdb and twitter. Here we are looking for new exploits
and CVEs that have just dropped, these are known as 1-days. When going down this
path time is the most important aspect, when a new exploit is dropped in the wild you
need to start exploiting your targets before they have a chance to patch. Once you hear
about a new exploit you will need to quickly find a POC for it and start mass scanning all
of your targets for that vulnerability.

As you can see both of these methodologies are very similar. With the first one we find
a target and see if it has any known vulnerabilities and if it does we try to exploit them.
In the second methodology we are looking for newly released exploits. When a new
exploit is dropped we immediately start scanning and exploiting everything before the
defenders have a chance to patch.

Identifying technologies
Introduction
When attempting to exploit a target with a known vulnerability you could just launch your
exploit at every target and hope for the best or you can do things a little smarter.
Identifying the target technology stack will help you find the exploits impacting that
stack. Not knowing this information will leave you blind and you will have to take random
guesses at which exploits might work.

Wappalyzer
If you're attempting to discover the technologies running on a website the best place to
start is wappalyzer. An alternative to wappalyzer is “https://builtwith.com/” but I personally
like wappalyzer better.

I personally like to use the wappalyzer browser plugin as it makes it easy to determine
an endpoints tech stack when browsing their website. As you can see in the image
above this website is running “Ruby on Rails”, “Jquery 3.5.0”, “Backbone.js 1.4.0”, and a
few other things. Note that if you use a command line tool you can scan multiple
websites at once, this is nice if you're trying to scan hundreds or thousands of sites at
once.

Powered By
Wappalyzer is great but it won’t identify everything. Wappalyzer works off of regexes so
if it doesn't have a specific technologies regex in its database it won't be able to identify
it.

As shown above, the wappalyzer came back mostly blank. However, if you look at the
footer at the bottom of the page you see the words “Powered by Gila CMS”. We can
conclude that this site is running Gila CMS but if we were only looking at wappalyzer we
would have missed this.

Summary
You need to know the technology stack your target is running so you can find
associated exploits. There are a few ways to determine the technologies an endpoint is

running but I almost always use wappalyzer. If you can’t determine this information with
wappalyzer there are other techniques to find an endpoints technology stack.

Identifying the vulnerabilities
Introduction
You know what software your target is running but how do you determine what
vulnerabilities it has? The whole point of learning a target technology stack is so you
can use this information to find associated vulnerabilities.

Google
When I'm looking to see what vulnerabilities a technology has the first place I go is
Google. Actually, Google is the first place I go when I have a question about anything as
it's the best resource out there. Try typing the following search queries into Google:
● <TECHNOLOGY> <VERSION> vulnerabilities
● <TECHNOLOGY> <VERSION> exploits

There is all kinds of stuff here! I see SQL injection exploits, LFI exploits, and much
more. I recommend you click on the first couple links to see what interesting
vulnerabilities there are. You'd be surprised at the things you will find buried in a blog
post 10 links down the page.

ExploitDB
Another place I like to search is ExploitDB. ExploitDB is a tool used to search and
download exploit code. This is by far one of my favorite resources to use when
searching for vulnerabilities related to a technology stack.
● https://www.exploit-db.com/

You can use the website to search for things but I typically use the command line tool
called searchsploit. You can download this tool from Github as shown below:
●

https://github.com/offensive-security/exploitdb

● ./searchsploit “name of technology”

Normally once we find out the vulnerabilities a target is vulnerable to we have to search
for the exploit code but we can skip this step since ExploitDB provides us with the proof
of concept(POC) code as well.

CVE
According to Google, the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures(CVE) system provides
a reference-method for publicly known information-security vulnerabilities and
exposures. If you're looking to find what CVEs a technology stack has, there is no better
place to search than NIST.
●

https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/search

Searching for “Gila CMS” gives us 17 CVEs, the newer the CVE the better as there is a
better chance the target hasn't patched their systems yet. Note that just because you

find a CVE doesn't mean you can exploit it. To exploit a CVE you need the proof of
concept(POC) exploit code, without that you're stuck.

Summary
Locating the vulnerabilities impacting a technology stack is relatively easy. All you really
have to do is search for them. Between Google, ExploitDB, and NIST you should be
able to find everything you're looking for.

Finding the POC
Introduction
You have identified that the target application contains vulnerabilities but to exploit them
you need the proof of concept (POC) exploit code. If you don't have the exploit code
your only other option is to make it yourself. However, this is beyond the scope of this
book.

Github
One of the best places to find exploit code is Github. GitHub is an American
multinational corporation that provides hosting for software development and version
control using Git. It offers the distributed version control and source code management
functionality of Git, plus its own features. Developers love Github and hackers do as
well.

You can easily search for a CVE on Github as shown in the above image. If there is a
POC you will most likely find it on here. However, BE AWARE OF FAKE POCs as
these exploits are not vetted and come from untrusted third parties.

ExploitDB
I already mentioned ExploitDB earlier so im not going to talk about it again but this is a
great resource for finding POCs.
●

https://www.exploit-db.com/

Summary
9 times out of 10 you are going to find the exploit code you're looking for on Github or
on ExploitDB. If you can’t find it in one of those locations it probably doesn't exist and

you will have to create your own POC. However, don’t be afraid to search for resources.
Sometimes the POC code can be buried deep in a blog post on the 5th page of Google.

Exploitation
Once you have a working POC you are ready to test it against your target. I always
recommend setting up a vulnerable machine to test the exploit against first so you know
what to expect from a real target. Once you're ready just run the exploit on your target
and review the results to see if they are vulnerable or not.

Conclusion
Exploiting known vulnerabilities is one of the oldest tricks in the book. That being said
it’s still one of the best methodologies to use for quick easy wins. There are really only
three steps when using this approach. First determine your targets techstack, search for
any vulnerabilities in that tech stack, and finally run the exploits.

Basic Hacking CMS
Introduction
Content management systems(CMS) such as wordpress,drupal,and joomla make up
the vast majority of the internet. According to a survey performed by W3Techs 62% of
the internet is run on a CMS and 39.1% percent of the internet is run on wordpress. As
an attacker this means the vast majority of the sites you are going to be going up
against will be run by a CMS.

Wordpress
As of right now over a quarter (25%) of the internet is built using WordPress. This is
useful to know because that means a single exploit has the potential to impact a large
portion of your target’s assets. There are in fact hundreds of exploits and
misconfigurations impacting WordPress and its associated plugins. One common tool to
scan for these vulnerabilities is wpscan:
● https://github.com/wpscanteam/wpscan
The only thing that’s annoying about this tool is that it's written in ruby, I prefer tools
written in python or Golang. During the fingerprinting phase you should've discovered
the technologies running on your target's assets so it should be easy to search for sites
running WordPress. Once you find a site scan it with wpscan as shown below:
● wpscan --URL <URL>

The vast majority of the sites you scan are going to be patched. This is because most of
these WordPress sites are managed by third party vendors who perform automatic
updates. However, you will run into vulnerable plugins quite frequently but many of
these exploits require credentials to exploit. Another thing I find all the time is directly
listing on the uploads folder. Always make sure to check:
● “/wp- content/uploads/”

You can often find sensitive information such as user emails, passwords, paid digital
products, and much more.

Drupal
Drupal is the third most popular CMS yet I seem to run into Drupal sites more than
Joomla. If you find a Drupal site you want to use droopescan to scan it. This scanner
also has the ability to scan additional CMSs as well:
●

https://github.com/droope/droopescan

● python3 droopescan scan Drupal -u <URL Here> -t 32

Joomla
WordPress is by far the most popular CMS with over 60% of the market share. Joomla
comes in second so you can expect to run into this CMS as well. Unlike WordPress
sites who seem to be fairly locked down Joomla is a mess. If you want to scan for
vulnerabilities the most popular tool is Joomscan:
●

https://github.com/rezasp/joomscan

● perl joomscan.pl -u <URL Here>

Adobe AEM
If you ever run into the Adobe AEM CMS you're about to find a whole bunch of
vulnerabilities. 99% of the time this is an instant win! This CMS is riddled with public
vulnerabilities and I’m 100% positive there are hundreds more zero days. Seriously this
is one of the worst CMSs I have ever seen. If you want to scan an AEM application for
vulnerabilities use the tool aemhacker:
●

https://github.com/0ang3el/aem-hacker

● python aem_hacker.py -u <URL Here> --host <Your Public IP>

Note that in order to test for the SSRF vulnerabilities you need to have a public IP that
the target server can connect back to.

Other
There are hundreds of different CMSs so it wouldn't be practical for me to mention every
single one of them. The vast majority of sites are going to be running WordPress,
Joomla, and Drupal but you still might run into other CMSs.

If you come across a CMS you haven't seen before the first step is to go to exploit db
and see if it has any known CVEs:
●

https://www.exploit-db.com/

For instance, if I discover a CMS named “Magento” I would perform the following search
on exploit-db:

In addition to finding single exploits you want to search GitHub to see if there is a tool
that can scan for all the possible vulnerabilities and misconfigurations. Like the tools for
wordpress,drupal, joomla, and adobe aem there are scanners that target other
platforms.

As it turns out there is a Magento vulnerability scanner called magescan so we can just
use that:
●

https://github.com/steverobbins/magescan

Make sure to use this process whenever you come across a CMS framework you don’t
recognize.

Conclusion
Over half of the internet is being run by a CMS framework. So, you are almost
guaranteed to run into a CMS at one point or another. When you do find a CMS, you
don’t want to waste time manually testing the endpoint, you want to test for known
CVEs and misconfigurations. The best way to do this is to find some sort of CMS
specific vulnerability scanner. If you can find that you can try searching exploit-db and
google for known CVEs. If you still come up empty handed it’s probably best to move on
unless you're hunting for zero days.

Basic Hacking Github
Introduction
GitHub is a web-based version-control and collaboration platform for software
developers and as of right now it’s one of the easiest ways to compromise an
organization. This is one of my go to techniques when I want an easy high impact
finding.

Finding Sensitive Information
Pilliging github for sensitive information disclosures is one of the easiest ways to
compromise an organization. It doesn’t matter how hardened your external perimeter is
if your developers are hard coding credentials and posting them online you’re going to
get compromised.

It's fairly common for developers to hard code test accounts, API keys, or whatever
when they are writing a piece of software. This makes things easy for the developer as
they won’t have to enter their credentials every time they go to run/test their program.
However, more times than not these credentials remain in the source code when they
push it to Github, if this repository is public everyone can view it.

The first thing you need is a list of sensitive words to search on. This can be a file name,
file extension, variable name, or anything else. A good list can be found below thanks to
“@obheda12”:

Once you have a list of sensitive things to search for your ready to hunt! I normally just
type in the domain of the target followed by the Github Dork as shown below:
● Domain.com “password”

As you can see above, searching for the domain “hackerone.com” and the term
“password” gave us 7,390 results. In a typical scenario I would end up going through
90% of these results by hand for a few hours before I find something juicy. Having to
spend hours sorting through a bunch of trash is really the only downside to this
technique. However, when you do find something it typically leads to an insta high or
critical finding.

Conclusion
As of right now Github is one of the easiest ways to get a high or critical vulnerability.
Almost every developer uses Github and these same developers also like hard coding
passwords in their source code. As long as you're willing to spend a few hours

searching through thousands of repos you’re almost guaranteed to find something
good.

Basic Hacking Subdomain Takeover
Introduction
Another extremely popular vulnerability is subdomain takeover. Though this vulnerability
has died down significantly it is still very common in the wild. If you are unfamiliar with
this type of vulnerability according to Google “Subdomain takeover attacks are a class
of security issues where an attacker is able to seize control of an organization's
subdomain via cloud services like AWS or Azure”.

Subdomain Takeover
A subdomain takeover occurs when a subdomain is pointing to another domain
(CNAME) that no longer exists. If an attacker were to register the non existing domain
then the target subdomain would now point to your domain effectively giving you full
control over the target’s subdomain. What makes this vulnerability so interesting is that
you can be safe one minute and a single DNS change can make you vulnerable the
next minute.

The vulnerability here is that the target subdomain points to a domain that does not
exist. An attacker can then register the non existing domain. Now the target subdomain
will point to a domain the attacker controls.

If you’re planning on hunting for this vulnerability you are definitely going to be
referencing the following github page as it contains a bunch of examples and
walkthroughs on exploiting different providers:
●

https://github.com/EdOverflow/can-i-take-over-xyz

As you can see above this page contains a large list of engines who can be exploited by
this vulnerability. If you click on the issue number it will give you a walk through
exploiting that particular engine. Because every provider has its own way of registering
domains you will need to learn the process of registering a domain on the engine that
impacts your target.

Github Takeover
One of the easiest ways to spot a subdomain takeover vulnerability is by the error
message it throws as shown below:

As you can see above when we visit our target site it throws a 404 status code and
gives us the error message “There isn’t a Github Pages Site here”. If we go to the
subdomain takeover wiki we can confirm that this error message indicates the possibility
of subdomain takeover.

Now that we have an indicator this site is vulnerable we need to get the github page the
vulnerable subdomain is pointing to. We need this information so we can register the
domain through github.

As shown above a “dig” command can be used to gather the DNS records of the
vulnerable domain. We can also see that the domain points to the github page
“ghostlulzvulntakeover.github.io”, if we can register this domain we win. To figure out the
process of registering a domain on Github you can Google it or you can follow the
tutorial in the subdomain takeover github page as shown below:

Now that we know the steps to register a domain on Github we just need to do it. First I
created a Github repo with the same name as the CNAME record:

After that create an “index.html” file in the repo as shown below:

The next step is to set the repo as the main branch.

Finally specify the target domain you are going after.

That's it! Now when you visit the target domain you should see the page you set up.

We WIN! As you can see above we successfully exploited the subdomain takeover
vulnerable and got our page to appear on the targets subdomain. Note that this is the
process for Github, if your target is vulnerable to something else you will have to follow

the steps for that provider. Lucky for us all this is documented on the subdomain
takeover github wiki.

Conclusion
A few years ago subdomain takeover was all over the place but it has started to die
down recently. However, you will still find plenty of organizations vulnerable to this type
of attack. It is extremely easy to pull off and it allows attackers to completely take over
the target subdomain. If you’re looking for an easy high security finding this is it.

Basic Hacking Databases
Introduction
A database is an organized collection of data, generally stored and accessed
electronically from a computer system. If you’re attacking a web application a lot of the
time one of the main goals is to compromise the back end database as it's where all the
sensitive user data is stored.

Compromising these databases normally involves exploiting an sql injection vulnerability
but sometimes it can be much easier. These databases are often exposed to the
internet without authentication leaving them open to hackers for pilliging as discussed in
the following sections.

Google Firebase
Introduction
According to Google “The Firebase Realtime Database is a cloud-hosted database
stored as JSON and synchronized in realtime to every connected client”. An issue can
arise in firebase when developers fail to enable authentication. This vulnerability is very
similar to every other database misconfiguration, there's no authentication. Leaving a
database exposed to the world unauthenticated is an open invite for malicious hackers.

Misconfigured Firebase Database
When i'm hunting for this I'll try to keep an eye out for the “*.firebaseio.com” url, if you
see this then you know your target is utilizing Google's firebase DB. An example domain
can be found below:
● Vuln-domain.firebaseio.com

If the developer forgot to enable authentication the database will be exposed to the
word. You can easily view the database by appending a “/.json” to the url as shown
below:
● vuln-domain.firebaseio.com/.json

As you can see above we were able to dump a bunch of passwords belonging to an
organization. An attacker could then leverage these credentials to perform additional
attacks on the application.

Summary
Finding and exploiting this misconfiguration is extremely easy and requires zero
technical skills to pull off. All you need to do is find an application using firebase,
append “/.json” to the url, and if there isn't authentication you can export the entire DB!

ElasticSearch DB
Introduction
You have probably heard of the popular relational database called MySQL. Elastic
search like MySQL is a database used to hold and query information. However, elastic
search is typically used to perform full text searches on very large datasets. Another
thing to note is that ElasticSearch is unauthenticated by default which can cause a lot of
security problems as described in the following sections.

ElasticSearch Basics
According to Google “ElasticSearch is a document- oriented database designed to
store, retrieve, and manage document-oriented or semi-structured data. When you use
Elasticsearch, you store data in JSON document form. Then, you query them for
retrieval.” Unlike MySQL which stores its information in tables, elastic search uses
something called types. Each type can have several rows which are called documents.
Documents are basically a json blob that hold your data as shown in the example
below:
● {"id":1, "name":"ghostlulz", "password":"SuperSecureP@ssword"}

In MySQL we use column names but in Elasticsearch we use field names. The field
names in the above json blob would be id, name, and password. In MySQL we would
store all of our tables in a database.

In Elastic Search we store our documents in something called an index. An index is
basically a collection of documents.

Unauthenticated ElasticSearch DB
Elastic search has an http server running on port 9200 that can be used to query the
database. The major issue here is that a lot of people expose this port to the public
internet without any kind of authentication. This means anyone can query the database
and extract information. A quick Shodan search will produce a tun of results as shown
below:

Once you have identified that your target has port 9200 open you can easily check if it is
an ElasticSearch database by hitting the root directory with a GET request. The
response should look something like the following:

Once you know an endpoint has an exposed Elastic Search db try to find all the
indexes(Databases) that are available. This can be done by hitting the “/_cat/indices?v”
endpoint with a GET request. This will list out all of the indexes as shown below:

This information along with other details about the service can also be found by
querying the “/_stats/?pretty=1” endpoint.
To perform a full text search on the database you can use the following command
“/_all/_search?q=email”. This will query every index for the word “email”. There are a

few words that I like to search for which include:
● Username
● Email
● Password
● Token
● Secret
● Key
If you want to query a specific index you can replace the word “_all” with the name of
the index you want to search against.

Another useful technique is to list all of the field names by making a GET request to the
“/INDEX_NAME_HERE/_mapping?pretty=1” endpoint. I typically search for interesting

field names such as:
● Username
● Email
● Password
● Token
● Secret
● Key

The output should look something like this:

As you can see above we have the field names addressable_type, city, and much more
which isn't displayed as the output was too large.

To query all values that contain a specific field name use the following command
“/_all/_search?q=_exists:email&pretty=1” . This will return documents that contain a field

name(column) named email as shown below:

Again you can replace “_all” with the name of an index to perform searches specifically
against that endpoint.

Summary
ElasticSearch is just another database where you can store and query information. The
major problem is that people expose the unauthenticated web service to the public. With
unauthenticated access to the web service attackers can easily dump the entire
database. Always be on the lookout for port 9200.

Mongo Database
Introduction
Like Elasticsearch MongoDB is a nosql database that uses JSON-like documents to
store data. Also similar to the rest of the databases we have talked about Mongo DB
fails to implement authentication by default. This means it's up to the user to enable this
which they often forget.

MongoDB
If you're searching for MongoDB instances, be on the lookout for port 27017. As
mentioned earlier MongoDB doesn't have authentication enabled by default so to test
for this vulnerability just try to login. To do this I normally just use the mongo cli as
shown below:
● mongo ip-address-here
Once logged into the database try issuing a command, if you get an “unauthorized”
error message prompting for authentication then the endpoint has authentication
enabled.

However, if you can run arbitrary commands against the system then authentication has
not been set up and you can do whatever you want.

Summary
If you see port 27017 open or any other MongoDB associate port make sure to test the
endpoint to see if its missing authentication. Exploiting this misconfiguration is as easy
as connecting to the database and extracting the data. This is as easy as it gets folks.

Conclusion
If an application needs to store data chances are its being stored in a database. These
databases hold all kinds of sensitive information such as passwords, tokens, private
messages, and everything else. That's why databases are always popular targets by
hackers. Since these are such popular targets you would think they would be fairly
secure but they aren't. A lot of databases are missing authentication by default! This
means if connected to the internet anyone could connect to these devices to extract the
information they hold.

Name

Endpoint

Firebase DB

*.firebaseio.com/.json

Elasticsearch

Port:9200

MongoDB

Port:27017

CouchDB

Port:5985,6984

CassandraDB

Port:9042,9160

Basic Hacking Brute Forcing
Introduction
Brute forcing is a classic attack that has been around forever and shows no signs of
being eliminated. Passwords are a weak point of security and as an attacker you should
take full advantage of this. Easily guessable passwords, using default passwords, and
password reuse are easy ways for an organization to get compromised. The rule of
thumb is if there is a login screen it should be brute forced.

Login Pages
There are three things you need to have if you want to launch a brute force attack. The
three things you need are an endpoint with a login page, a username , and a password.
First you need to find the endpoint you want to target.

Name

Endpoint

Web Application Login Page

Web application login page, Outlook mail,
VPN, Router, Firewall, Wordpress admin
panel, etc

SSH

Port:22

RDP

Port:3389

VNC

Port:5900

FTP

Port:21

Telnet

Port:23

Default Credentials
Now that you know which endpoints to look out for you need to get a list of usernames
and passwords. This technique may be basic but you would be surprised at the number
of times iv compromised an organization because they are using default credentials.

As shown above one of the best places to find default passwords is SecList:
●

https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists/tree/master/Passwords/Default-Credentials

The above picture is an example file containing default usernames and passwords to
hundreds of routers. All you have to do is look up the target vendor and try all the

default passwords it uses, this technique works very well as people often forget to
change the default credentials.

If you are targeting an SSH server or something other than a router the process will be
slightly different. Not really, those services also come with default credentials as shown
in the image below:

Depending on the service you are brute forcing you will want to find or create a list of
credentials tailored toward that. You may also find that sec list does not have any
default passwords impacting the target technology. If that's the case just perform a
Google search or two, I normally find these things in the first few links.

Brute Forcing
Once you have a good set of credentials you can start the actual process of brute
forcing. You could do this by hand but I would 100% recommend using a tool for this job
unless you are only testing 5 passwords or something small like that.
●

https://github.com/vanhauser-thc/thc-hydra

If you're performing a brute force attack you probably want to use the tool “hydra”. This
tool supports a bunch of different protocols and has never let me down. Once you have
the target endpoint and credentials you can use any tool to perform the brute force
attack just pick one you like.

Conclusion
Brute force attacks is an easy way to compromise a target application. With the use of
default passwords, easily guessable passwords, and password reuse finding a target

