History

Topics

LINUX BASICS FOR HACKERS

Getting Started with Networking, Scripting, and Security in Kali
Tutorials

by OccupyTheWeb
Offers & Deals

Highlights

Settings
Support

San Francisco

Sign Out

laylists

LINUX BASICS FOR HACKERS. Copyright © 2019 by OccupyTheWeb.
istory

All rights reserved. No part of this work may be reproduced or transmitted in any form
or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by

opics

any information storage or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of the
copyright owner and the publisher.

utorials

ISBN­10: 1­59327­855­1

ffers & Deals

ISBN­13: 978­1­59327­855­7

ighlights

Publisher: William Pollock
Production Editors: Serena Yang and Meg Sneeringer

ettings

Cover Illustration: Josh Ellingson
Interior Design: Octopod Studios

Support

Developmental Editor: Liz Chadwick

Reviewer: Cliff Janzen
SignTechnical
Out
Copyeditor: Barton D. Reed
Compositors: Serena Yang and Meg Sneeringer
Proofreader: Paula L. Fleming
Indexer: JoAnne Burek
For information on distribution, translations, or bulk sales, please contact No Starch
Press, Inc. directly:
No Starch Press, Inc.
245 8th Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
phone: 1.415.863.9900; info@nostarch.com
www.nostarch.com
Library of Congress Cataloging­in­Publication Data
Names: OccupyTheWeb, author.
Title: Linux basics for hackers : getting started with networking, scripting,
and security in Kali / OccupyTheWeb.
Description: First edition. | San Francisco : No Starch Press, Inc., [2018].
Identifiers: LCCN 2018030544 (print) | LCCN 2018032646 (ebook) | ISBN

9781593278564 (epub) | ISBN 159327856X (epub) | ISBN 9781593278557 (print)
| ISBN 1593278551 (print) | ISBN 9781593278564 (ebook) | ISBN 159327856X
(ebook)
Subjects: LCSH: Penetration testing (Computer security) | Kali Linux. |
Hackers. | Operating systems (Computers)
Classification: LCC QA76.9.A25 (ebook) | LCC QA76.9.A25 O325 2018 (print) |
DDC 005.8­­dc23
LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2018030544
No Starch Press and the No Starch Press logo are registered trademarks of No Starch
Press, Inc. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be the
trademarks of their respective owners. Rather than use a trademark symbol with every
occurrence of a trademarked name, we are using the names only in an editorial fashion
and to the benefit of the trademark owner, with no intention of infringement of the
trademark.
The information in this book is distributed on an “As Is” basis, without warranty. While
every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this work, neither the author nor
No Starch Press, Inc. shall have any liability to any person or entity with respect to any
loss or damage caused or alleged to be caused directly or indirectly by the information
contained in it.

y

History

INTRODUCTION

Topics

Tutorials

Offers & Deals

Highlights

Hacking is the most important skill set of the 21st century! I don’t make that statement
Settings
lightly. Events in recent years seem to reaffirm this statement with every morning’s
Support
headline. Nations are spying on each other to gain secrets, cyber criminals are stealing

billions of dollars, digital worms demanding ransoms are being released, adversaries

Sign Out

are influencing each other’s elections, and combatants are taking down each other’s
utilities. These are all the work of hackers, and their influence over our increasingly
digital world is just beginning to be felt.
I decided to write this book after working with tens of thousands of aspiring hackers
through Null­Byte, https://www.hackers­arise.com/, and nearly every branch of the

US military and intelligence agencies (NSA, DIA, CIA, and FBI). These experiences
have taught me that many aspiring hackers have had little or no experience with Linux,
and this lack of experience is the primary barrier to their starting the journey to
becoming professional hackers. Almost all the best hacker tools are written in Linux, so
some basic Linux skills are a prerequisite to becoming a professional hacker. I have
written this book to help aspiring hackers get over this barrier.
Hacking is an elite profession within the IT field. As such, it requires an extensive and
detailed understanding of IT concepts and technologies. At the most fundamental level,
Linux is a requirement. I strongly suggest you invest time and energy into using and
understanding it if you want to make hacking and information security your career.
This book is not intended for the experienced hacker or the experienced Linux admin.

Instead, it is intended for those who want to get started along the exciting path of
hacking, cybersecurity, and pentesting. It is also intended not as a complete treatise on
Linux or hacking but rather a starting point into these worlds. It begins with the
essentials of Linux and extends into some basic scripting in both bash and Python.
Wherever appropriate, I have tried to use examples from the world of hacking to teach
Linux principles.
In this introduction, we’ll look at the growth of ethical hacking for information security,
and I’ll take you through the process of installing a virtual machine so you can install
Kali Linux on your system without disturbing the operating system you are already
running.

WHAT’S IN THIS BOOK
In the first set of chapters you’ll get comfortable with the fundamentals of Linux;
Chapter 1 will get you used to the file system and the terminal, and give you some
basic commands. Chapter 2 shows you how to manipulate text to find, examine, and
alter software and files.
In Chapter 3 you’ll manage networks. You’ll scan for networks, find information on
connections, and disguise yourself by masking your network and DNS information.
Chapter 4 teaches you to add, remove, and update software, and how to keep your
system streamlined. In Chapter 5, you’ll manipulate file and directory permissions to
control who can access what. You’ll also learn some privilege escalation techniques.
Chapter 6 teaches you how to manage services, including starting and stopping
processes and allocating resources to give you greater control. In Chapter 7 you’ll
manage environment variables for optimal performance, convenience, and even stealth.
You’ll find and filter variables, change your PATH variable, and create new
environment variables.
Chapter 8 introduces you to bash scripting, a staple for any serious hacker. You’ll
learn the basics of bash and build a script to scan for target ports that you might later
infiltrate.
Chapters 9 and 10 give you some essential file system management skills, showing
you how to compress and archive files to keep your system clean, copy entire storage
devices, and get information on files and connected disks.
The latter chapters dig deeper into hacking topics. In Chapter 11 you’ll use and

manipulate the logging system to get information on a target’s activity and cover your
own tracks. Chapter 12 shows you how to use and abuse three core Linux services:
Apache web server, OpenSSH, and MySQL. You’ll create a web server, build a remote
video spy, and learn about databases and their vulnerabilities. Chapter 13 will show
you how to stay secure and anonymous with proxy servers, the Tor network, VPNs, and
encrypted email.
Chapter 14 deals with wireless networks. You’ll learn basic networking commands,
then crack Wi­Fi access points and detect and connect to Bluetooth signals.
Chapter 15 dives deeper into Linux itself with a high level view of how the kernel
works and how its drivers can be abused to deliver malicious software. In Chapter 16
you’ll learn essential scheduling skills in order to automate your hacking scripts.
Chapter 17 will teach you core Python concepts, and you’ll script two hacking tools: a
scanner to spy on TCP/IP connections, and a simple password cracker.

WHAT IS ETHICAL HACKING?
With the growth of the information security field in recent years has come dramatic
growth in the field of ethical hacking, also known as white hat (good guy) hacking.
Ethical hacking is the practice of attempting to infiltrate and exploit a system in order
to find out its weaknesses and better secure it. I segment the field of ethical hacking
into two primary components: penetration testing for a legitimate information security
firm and working for your nation’s military or intelligence agencies. Both are rapidly
growing areas, and demand is strong.

Penetration Testing
As organizations become increasingly security conscious and the cost of security
breaches rises exponentially, many large organizations are beginning to contract out
security services. One of these key security services is penetration testing. A
penetration test is essentially a legal, commissioned hack to demonstrate the
vulnerability of a firm’s network and systems.
Generally, organizations conduct a vulnerability assessment first to find potential
vulnerabilities in their network, operating systems, and services. I emphasize potential,
as this vulnerability scan includes a significant number of false positives (things
identified as vulnerabilities that really are not). It is the role of the penetration tester to
attempt to hack, or penetrate, these vulnerabilities. Only then can the organization
know whether the vulnerability is real and decide to invest time and money to close the
vulnerability.

Military and Espionage

Military and Espionage
Nearly every nation on earth now engages in cyber espionage and cyber warfare. One
only needs to scan the headlines to see that cyber activities are the chosen method for
spying on and attacking military and industrial systems.
Hacking plays a crucial part in these military and intelligence­gathering activities, and
that will only be more true as time goes by. Imagine a war of the future where hackers
can gain access to their adversary’s war plans and knock out their electric grid, oil
refineries, and water systems. These activities are taking place every day now. The
hacker thus becomes a key component of their nation’s defense.

WHY HACKERS USE LINUX
So why do hackers use Linux over other operating systems? Mostly because Linux
offers a far higher level of control via a few different methods.

Linux Is Open Source
Unlike Windows, Linux is open source, meaning that the source code of the operating
system is available to you. As such, you can change and manipulate it as you please. If
you are trying to make a system operate in ways it was not intended to, being able to
manipulate the source code is essential.

Linux Is Transparent
To hack effectively, you must know and understand your operating system and, to a
large extent, the operating system you are attacking. Linux is totally transparent,
meaning we can see and manipulate all its working parts.
Not so with Windows. Microsoft tries hard to make it as difficult as possible to know
the inner workings of its operating systems, so you never really know what’s going on
“under the hood,” whereas in Linux, you have a spotlight shining directly on each and
every component of the operating system. This makes working with Linux more
effective.

Linux Offers Granular Control
Linux is granular. That means that you have an almost infinite amount of control over
the system. In Windows, you can control only what Microsoft allows you to control. In
Linux, everything can be controlled by the terminal, at the most miniscule level or the
most macro level. In addition, Linux makes scripting in any of the scripting languages

simple and effective.

Most Hacking Tools Are Written for Linux
Well over 90 percent of all hacking tools are written for Linux. There are exceptions, of
course, such as Cain and Abel and Wikto, but those exceptions prove the rule. Even
when hacking tools such as Metasploit or nmap are ported for Windows, not all the
capabilities transfer from Linux.

The Future Belongs to Linux/Unix
This might seem like a radical statement, but I firmly believe that the future of
information technology belongs to Linux and Unix systems. Microsoft had its day in the
1980s and 1990s, but its growth is slowing and stagnating.
Since the internet began, Linux/Unix has been the operating system of choice for web
servers due to its stability, reliability, and robustness. Even today, Linux/Unix is used
in two­thirds of web servers and dominates the market. Embedded systems in routers,
switches, and other devices almost always use a Linux kernel, and the world of
virtualization is dominated by Linux, with both VMware and Citrix built on the Linux
kernel.
Over 80 percent of mobile devices run Unix or Linux (iOS is Unix, and Android is
Linux), so if you believe that the future of computing lies in mobile devices such as
tablets and phones (it would be hard to argue otherwise), then the future is Unix/Linux.
Microsoft Windows has just 7 percent of the mobile devices market. Is that the wagon
you want to be hitched to?

DOWNLOADING KALI LINUX
Before getting started, you need to download and install Kali Linux on your computer.
This is the Linux distribution we will be working with throughout this book. Linux was
first developed by Linus Torvalds in 1991 as an open source alternative to Unix. Since it
is open source, volunteer developers code the kernel, the utilities, and the applications.
This means that there is no overriding corporate entity overseeing development, and as
a result, conventions and standardization are often lacking.
Kali Linux was developed by Offensive Security as a hacking operating system built on
a distribution of Linux called Debian. There are many distributions of Linux, and
Debian is one of the best. You are probably most familiar with Ubuntu as a popular
desktop distribution of Linux. Ubuntu is also built on Debian. Other distributions

include Red Hat, CentOS, Mint, Arch, and SUSE. Although they all share the same
Linux kernel (the heart of the operating system that controls the CPU, RAM, and so
on), each has its own utilities, applications, and choice of graphical interface (GNOME,
KDE, and others) for different purposes. As a result, each of these distributions of
Linux looks and feels slightly different. Kali was designed for penetration testers and
hackers and comes with a significant complement of hacking tools.
I strongly recommend that you use Kali for this book. Although you can use another
distribution, you will likely have to download and install the various tools we will be
using, which could mean many hours downloading and installing tools. In addition, if
that distribution is not built on Debian, there may be other minor differences. You can
download and install Kali from https://www.kali.org/.
From the home page, click the Downloads link at the top of the page. On the
Downloads page you’ll be faced with multiple download choices. It’s important to
choose the right download. Along the left side of the table, you will see the image name,
which is the name of the version that the link downloads. For instance, the first image
name listing I see is Kali Linux 64 Bit, meaning it’s the full Kali Linux and is suitable for
64­bit systems—most modern systems use a 64­bit Intel or AMD CPU. To determine
what type of CPU is on your system, go to Control Panel ▸ System and Security ▸
System, and it should be listed. If your system is 64­bit, download and install the 64­
bit version of the full Kali (not Light or Lxde, or any of the other alternatives).
If you are running an older computer with a 32­bit CPU, you will need to install the 32­
bit version, which appears lower on the page.
You have a choice of downloading via HTTP or Torrent. If you choose HTTP, Kali will
download directly to your system just like any download, and it will be placed in your
Downloads folder. The torrent download is the peer­to­peer download used by many
file­sharing sites. You will need a torrenting application like BitTorrent to do this. The
Kali file will then download to the folder in which the torrenting application stores its
downloads.
There are other versions for other types of CPUs, such as the commonly used ARM
architecture found in so many mobile devices. If you are using a Raspberry Pi, tablet, or
other mobile device (phone users will likely prefer Kali NetHunter), make certain you
download and install the ARM architecture version of Kali by scrolling down to
Download ARM images and clicking Kali ARM Images.
You have Kali downloaded, but before you install anything, I want to talk a bit about

virtual machines. Generally, for the beginner, installing Kali into a virtual machine is
the best solution for learning and practicing.

VIRTUAL MACHINES
Virtual machine (VM) technology allows you to run multiple operating systems from
one piece of hardware like your laptop or desktop. This means that you can continue to
run the Windows or MacOS operating system you are familiar with and run a virtual
machine of Kali Linux inside that operating system. You don’t need to overwrite your
existing OS to learn Linux.
Numerous virtual machine applications are available from VMware, Oracle, Microsoft,
and other vendors. All are excellent, but here I will be showing you how to download
and install Oracle’s free VirtualBox.

Installing VirtualBox
You can download VirtualBox at https://www.virtualbox.org/, as shown in Figure 1.
Click the Downloads link in the left menu, and select the VirtualBox package for your
computer’s current operating system, which will host VirtualBox VM. Make sure to
download the latest version.

Figure 1: VirtualBox home page
When the download has completed, click the setup file, and you will be greeted by a
familiar Setup Wizard, shown in Figure 2.

Figure 2: The Setup Wizard dialog
Click Next, and you should be greeted with the Custom Setup screen, as in Figure 3.

Figure 3: The Custom Setup dialog
From this screen, simply click Next. Keep clicking Next until you get to the Network
Interfaces warning screen and then click Yes.
Click Install to begin the process. During this process, you will likely be prompted
several times about installing device software. These are the virtual networking devices
necessary for your virtual machines to communicate. Click Install for each one.

When the installation is complete, click Finish.

Setting Up Your Virtual Machine
Now let’s get you started with your virtual machine. VirtualBox should open once it has
installed—if not, open it—and you should be greeted by the VirtualBox Manager, as
seen in Figure 4.

Figure 4: The VirtualBox Manager
Since we will be creating a new virtual machine with Kali Linux, click New in the
upper­left corner. This opens the Create Virtual Machine dialog shown in Figure 5.
Give your machine a name (any name is okay, but I simply used Kali) and then select
Linux from the Type drop­down menu. Finally, select Debian (64­bit) from the
third drop­down menu (unless you are using the 32­bit version of Kali, in which case
select the Debian 32­bit version). Click Next, and you’ll see a screen like Figure 6.
Here, you need to select how much RAM you want to allocate to this new virtual
machine.

Figure 5: The Create Virtual Machine dialog

Figure 6: Allocating memory
As a rule of thumb, I don’t recommend using more than 25 percent of your total system
RAM. That means if you have installed 4GB on your physical or host system, then select
just 1GB for your virtual machine, and if you have 16GB on your physical system, then
select 4GB. The more RAM you give your virtual machine, the better and faster it will
run, but you must also leave enough RAM for your host operating system and any other
virtual machines you might want to run simultaneously. Your virtual machines will not
use any RAM when you are not using them, but they will use hard drive space.
Click Next, and you’ll get to the Hard Disk screen. Choose Create Virtual Hard
Disk and click Create.

In the next screen, you can decide whether you want the hard drive you are creating to
be allocated dynamically or at a fixed size. If you choose Dynamically Allocated, the
system will not take the entire maximum size you allocate for the virtual hard disk until
you need it, saving more unused hard disk space for your host system. I suggest you
select dynamically allocated.
Click Next, and you’ll choose the amount of hard drive space to allocate to the VM and
the location of the VM (see Figure 7).

Figure 7: Allocating hard drive space
The default is 8GB. I usually find that to be a bit small and recommend that you
allocate 20–25GB at a minimum. Remember, if you chose to dynamically allocate hard
drive space, it won’t use the space until you need it, and expanding your hard drive
after it has already been allocated can be tricky, so better to err on the high side.
Click Create, and you’re ready to go!

Installing Kali on the VM
At this point, you should see a screen like Figure 8. Now you’ll need to install Kali. Note
that on the left of the VirtualBox Manager, you should see an indication that Kali VM is
powered off. Click the Start button (green arrow icon).

Figure 8: The VirtualBox welcome screen
The VirtualBox Manager will then ask where to find the startup disk. You’ve already
downloaded a disk image with the extension .iso, which should be in your Downloads
folder (if you used a torrent to download Kali, the .iso file will be in the Downloads
folder of your torrenting application). Click the folder icon to the right, navigate to the
Downloads folder, and select the Kali image file (see Figure 9).

Figure 9: Selecting your startup disk
Then click Start. Congratulations, you’ve just installed Kali Linux on a virtual machine!

SETTING UP KALI
Kali will now open a screen like Figure 10, offering you several startup choices. I
suggest using the graphical install for beginners. Use your keyboard keys to navigate
the menu.
If you get an error when you’re installing Kali into your VirtualBox, it’s likely because
you don’t have virtualization enabled within your system’s BIOS. Each system and its
BIOS is slightly different, so check with your manufacturer or search online for
solutions for your system and BIOS. In addition, on Windows systems, you will likely
need to disable any competing virtualization software such as Hyper­V. Again, an
internet search for your system should guide you in doing so.

Figure 10: Selecting the install method
You will next be asked to select your language. Make certain you select the language you
are most comfortable working in and then click Continue. Next, select your location,
click Continue, and then select your keyboard layout.
When you click Continue, VirtualBox will go through a process of detecting your
hardware and network adapters. Just wait patiently as it does so. Eventually, you will
be greeted by a screen asking you to configure your network, as in Figure 11.

Figure 11: Entering a hostname
The first item it asks for is the name of your host. You can name it anything you please,
but I left mine with the default “kali.”
Next, you will be asked for the domain name. It’s not necessary to enter anything here.
Click Continue. The next screen, shown in Figure 12, is very important. Here, you are
asked for the password you want to use for the root user.

Figure 12: Choosing a password
The root user in Linux is the all­powerful system administrator. You can use any
password you feel secure with. If this were a physical system that we were using on the
internet, I would suggest that you use a very long and complex password to limit the
ability of an attacker to crack it. Since this is a virtual machine that people can’t access
without first accessing your host operating system, password authentication on this
virtual machine is less important, but you should still choose wisely.
Click Continue, and you will be asked to set your time zone. Do so and then continue.
The next screen asks about partition disks (a partition is just what it sounds like—a
portion or segment of your hard drive). Choose Guided – use entire disk, and Kali
will detect your hard drives and set up a partitioner automatically.
Kali will then warn you that all data on the disk you select will be erased . . . but don’t
worry! This is a virtual disk, and the disk is new and empty, so this won’t actually do
anything. Click Continue.
Kali will now ask whether you want all files in one partition or if you want to have

separate partitions. If this were a production system, you probably would select
separate partitions for /home, /var, and /tmp, but considering that we will be using
this as a learning system in a virtual environment, it is safe for you to simply select All
files in one partition.
Now you be will be asked whether to write your changes to disk. Select Finish
partitioning and write changes to disk. Kali will prompt you once more to see if
you want to write the changes to disk; select Yes and click Continue (see Figure 13).

Figure 13: Writing changes to disk
Kali will now begin to install the operating system. This could take a while, so be
patient. Now is the time to take your bathroom break and get your favorite beverage.
Once the installation is complete, you will be prompted as to whether you want to use a
network mirror. This really is not necessary, so click No.
Then Kali will prompt you as to whether you want to install GRUB (Grand Unified
Bootloader), shown in Figure 14. A bootloader enables you to select different operating
systems to boot into, which means when you boot your machine, you can boot into

either Kali or another operating system. Select Yes and click Continue.

Figure 14: Installing GRUB
On the next screen, you will be prompted as to whether you want to install the GRUB
bootloader automatically or manually. For reasons as yet unclear, if you choose the
second option, Kali will tend to hang and display a blank screen after installation. Select
Enter device manually, as shown in Figure 15.

Figure 15: Entering your device manually
On the following screen, select the drive where the GRUB bootloader should be
installed (it will likely be something like /dev/sda). Click through to the next screen,
which should tell you that the installation is complete.
Congratulations! You’ve installed Kali. Click Continue. Kali will attempt to reboot, and
you will see a number of lines of code go across a blank, black screen before you are
eventually greeted with Kali 2018’s login screen, as shown in Figure 16.

Figure 16: The Kali login screen

Log in as root, and you will be asked for your password. Enter whatever password you
selected for your root user.
After logging in as root, you will be greeted with the Kali Linux desktop, as in Figure 17.

Figure 17: The Kali home screen
You are now ready to begin your journey into the exciting field of hacking! Welcome!

History

Topics

1

GETTING STARTED WITH THE BASICS

Tutorials

Offers & Deals

Highlights

Settings
Support

By our very nature, hackers are doers. We want to touch and play with things. We also

Signwant
Out to create and, sometimes, break things. Few of us want to read long tomes of

information technology theory before we can do what we love most: hacking. With that
in mind, this chapter is designed to give you some fundamental skills to get you up and
running in Kali . . . now!
In this chapter, we won’t go into any one concept in great detail—we’ll cover just
enough to let you play and explore in the operating system of hackers: Linux. We will
save more in­depth discussions for later chapters.

INTRODUCTORY TERMS AND CONCEPTS
Before we begin our journey through the wonderful world of Linux Basics for Hackers,
I want to introduce a few terms that should clarify some concepts discussed later in this
chapter.
Binaries This term refers to files that can be executed, similar to executables in
Windows. Binaries generally reside in the /usr/bin or usr/sbin directory and include
utilities such as ps, cat, ls, and cd(we’ll touch on all of four of these in this chapter) as
well as applications such as the wireless hacking tool aircrack­ng and the intrusion
detection system (IDS) Snort.

Case sensitivity Unlike Windows, Linux is case sensitive. This means that Desktop is
different from desktop, which is different from DeskTop. Each of these would represent
a different file or directory name. Many people coming from a Windows environment
can find this frustrating. If you get the error message “file or directory not found” and
you are sure the file or directory exists, you probably need to check your case.
Directory This is the same as a folder in Windows. A directory provides a way of
organizing files, usually in a hierarchical manner.
Home Each user has their own /home directory, and this is generally where files you
create will be saved by default.
Kali Kali Linux is a distribution of Linux specifically designed for penetration testing.
It has hundreds of tools preinstalled, saving you the hours it would take to download
and install them yourself. I will be using the latest version of Kali at the time of this
writing: Kali 2018.2, first released in April 2018.
root Like nearly every operating system, Linux has an administrator or superuser
account, designed for use by a trusted person who can do nearly anything on the
system. This would include such things as reconfiguring the system, adding users, and
changing passwords. In Linux, that account is called root. As a hacker or pentester, you
will often use the root account to give yourself control over the system. In fact, many
hacker tools require that you use the root account.
Script This is a series of commands run in an interpretive environment that converts
each line to source code. Many hacking tools are simply scripts. Scripts can be run with
the bash interpreter or any of the other scripting language interpreters, such as Python,
Perl, or Ruby. Python is currently the most popular interpreter among hackers.
Shell This is an environment and interpreter for running commands in Linux. The
most widely used shell is bash, which stands for Bourne­again shell, but other popular
shells include the C shell and Z shell. I will be using the bash shell exclusively in this
book.
Terminal This is a command line interface (CLI).
With those basics behind us, we will attempt to methodically develop the essential
Linux skills you’ll need to become a hacker or penetration tester. In this first chapter,
I’ll walk you through getting started with Kali Linux.

A TOUR OF KALI

Once you start Kali, you’ll be greeted with a login screen, as shown in Figure 1­1. Log in
using the root account username root and the default password toor.

Figure 1­1: Logging into Kali using the root account
You should now have access to your Kali desktop (see Figure 1­2). We’ll quickly look at
two of the most basic aspects of the desktop: the terminal interface and file structure.

Figure 1­2: The Kali desktop

The Terminal

The Terminal
The first step in using Kali is to open the terminal, which is the command line interface
we’ll use in this book. In Kali Linux, you’ll find the icon for the terminal at the bottom
of the desktop. Double­click this icon to open the terminal or press CTRL­ALT­T. Your
new terminal should look like the one shown in Figure 1­3.

Figure 1­3: The Kali terminal
This terminal opens the command line environment, known as the shell, which enables
you to run commands on the underlying operating systems and write scripts. Although
Linux has many different shell environments, the most popular is the bash shell, which
is also the default shell in Kali and many other Linux distributions.
To change your password, you can use the command passwd.

The Linux Filesystem
The Linux filesystem structure is somewhat different from that of Windows. Linux
doesn’t have a physical drive (such as the C: drive) at the base of the filesystem but uses
a logical filesystem instead. At the very top of the filesystem structure is /, which is
often referred to as the root of the filesystem, as if it were an upside­down tree (see

Figure 1­4). Keep in mind that this is different from the root user. These terms may
seem confusing at first, but they will become easier to differentiate once you get used to
Linux.

Figure 1­4: The Linux filesystem
The root (/) of the filesystem is at the top of the tree, and the following are the most
important subdirectories to know:
/root The home directory of the all­powerful root user
/etc Generally contains the Linux configuration files—files that control when and how
programs start up
/home The user’s home directory
/mnt Where other filesystems are attached or mounted to the filesystem
/media Where CDs and USB devices are usually attached or mounted to the filesystem
/bin Where application binaries (the equivalent of executables in Microsoft Windows)
reside
/lib Where you’ll find libraries (shared programs that are similar to Windows DLLs)
We’ll spend more time with these key directories throughout this book. Understanding
these first­level directories is important to navigating through the filesystem from the
command line.
It’s also important to know before you start that you should not log in as root when
performing routine tasks, because anyone who hacks your system (yes, hackers
sometimes get hacked) when you’re logged in as root would immediately gain root
privileges and thus “own” your system. Log in as a regular user when starting regular

applications, browsing the web, running tools like Wireshark, and so on.

BASIC COMMANDS IN LINUX
To begin, let’s look at some basic commands that will help you get up and running in
Linux.

Finding Yourself with pwd
Unlike when you’re working in a graphical user interface (GUI) environment like
Windows or macOS, the command line in Linux does not always make it apparent
which directory you’re presently in. To navigate to a new directory, you usually need to
know where you are currently. The present working directory command, pwd, returns
your location within the directory structure.
Enter pwdin your terminal to see where you are:
kali >pwd
/root
In this case, Linux returned /root, telling me I’m in the root user’s directory. And
because you logged in as root when you started Linux, you should be in the root user’s
directory, too, which is one level below the top of the filesystem structure (/).
If you’re in another directory, pwdwill return that directory name instead.

Checking Your Login with whoami
In Linux, the one “all­powerful” superuser or system administrator is named root, and
it has all the system privileges needed to add users, change passwords, change
privileges, and so on. Obviously, you don’t want just anyone to have the ability to make
such changes; you want someone who can be trusted and has proper knowledge of the
operating system. As a hacker, you usually need to have all those privileges to run the
programs and commands you need (many hacker tools won’t work unless you have root
privileges), so you’ll want to log in as root.
If you’ve forgotten whether you’re logged in as root or another user, you can use the
who
amicommand to see which user you’re logged in as:

kali >whoami

root
If I had been logged in as another user, such as my personal account, whoamiwould have
returned my username instead, as shown here:
kali >whoami
OTW

Navigating the Linux Filesystem
Navigating the filesystem from the terminal is an essential Linux skill. To get anything
done, you need to be able to move around to find applications, files, and directories
located in other directories. In a GUI­based system, you can visually see the directories,
but when you’re using the command line interface, the structure is entirely text based,
and navigating the filesystem means using some commands.

Changing Directories with cd
To change directories from the terminal, use the change directory command, cd. For
example, here’s how to change to the /etc directory used to store configuration files:
kali >cd/etc
root@kali:/etc#
The prompt changes to root@kali:/etc, indicating that we’re in the /etc directory. We can
confirm this by entering pwd:
root@kali:/etc# p
wd
/etc
To move up one level in the file structure (toward the root of the file structure, or /), we
use cdfollowed by double dots (..), as shown here:
root@kali:/etc# c
d..
root@kali:/# pw
d
/
root@kali:/#
This moves us up one level from /etc to the / root directory, but you can move up as

many levels as you need. Just use the same number of double­dot pairs as the number
of levels you want to move:
You would use ..to move up one level.
You would use ....to move up two levels.
You would use ......to move up three levels, and so on.

So, for example, to move up two levels, enter cdfollowed by two sets of double dots with
a space in between:
kali >c
d...
.
You can also move up to the root level in the file structure from anywhere by entering cd
/
, where /represents the root of the filesystem.

Listing the Contents of a Directory with ls
To see the contents of a directory (the files and subdirectories), we can use the ls(list)
command. This is very similar to the dircommand in Windows.
kali >l
s
bin initrd.img

media

run

var

boot initrd.img.old mnt

sbin

vmlinuz

dev lib

opt

srv

vmlinuz.old

etc lib64

proc

tmp

home lost+found

root

usr

This command lists both the files and directories contained in the directory. You can
also use this command on any particular directory, not just the one you are currently in,
by listing the directory name after the command; for example, ls/etcshows what’s in
the /etc directory.
To get more information about the files and directories, such as their permissions,
owner, size, and when they were last modified, you can add the -lswitch after ls(the l
stands for long). This is often referred to as long listing. Let’s try it here:

As you can see, ls-lprovides us with significantly more information, such as whether
an object is a file or directory, the number of links, the owner, the group, its size, when
it was created or modified, and its name.
I typically add the -lswitch whenever doing a listing in Linux, but to each their own.
We’ll talk more about ls-lin Chapter 5.
Some files in Linux are hidden and won’t be revealed by a simple lsor ls-lcommand.
To show hidden files, add a lowercase –aswitch, like so:
kali >l
sla
If you aren’t seeing a file you expect to see, it’s worth trying lswith the aflag.

Getting Help
Nearly every command, application, or utility has a dedicated help file in Linux that
provides guidance for its use. For instance, if I needed help using the best wireless
cracking tool, aircrack­ng, I could simply type the aircrack-ngcommand followed by the
-he
lpcommand:

kali >a
ir
c
rac
kng-he
lp
Note the double dash here. The convention in Linux is to use a double dash (--) before
word options, such as help, and a single dash (-) before single­letter options, such as –h.
When you enter this command, you should see a short description of the tool and
guidance on how to use it. In some cases, you can use either -hor -?to get to the help
file. For instance, if I needed help using the hacker’s best port­scanning tool, nmap, I
would enter the following:
kali >n
ma
p-h

Unfortunately, although many applications support all three options (--help, -h, and -?),
there’s no guarantee the application you’re using will. So if one option doesn’t work, try
another.

Referencing Manual Pages with man
In addition to the help switch, most commands and applications have a manual (man)
page with more information, such as a description and synopsis of the command or
application. You can view a man page by simply typing manbefore the command, utility,
or application. To see the man page for aircrack­ng, for example, you would enter the
following:

This opens the manual for aircrack­ng, providing you with more detailed information
than the helpscreen. You can scroll through this manual file using the ENTER key, or
you can page up and down using the PG DN and PG UP keys, respectively. To exit, simply
enter q(for quit), and you’ll return to the command prompt.

FINDING STUFF
Until you become familiar with Linux, it can be frustrating to find your way around, but
knowledge of a few basic commands and techniques will go a long way toward making
the command line much friendlier. The following commands help you locate things
from the terminal.

Searching with locate

Searching with locate
Probably the easiest command to use is locate. Followed by a keyword denoting what it
is you want to find, this command will go through your entire filesystem and locate
every occurrence of that word.
To look for aircrack­ng, for example, enter the following:
kali >locateaircr
ac
kng
/usr/bin/aircrack­ng
/usr/share/applications/kali­aircrack­ng.desktop
/usr/share/desktop­directories/05­1­01­aircrack­ng.directory
­­snip­­
/var/lib/dpkg/info/aircrack­ng.mg5sums
The locatecommand is not perfect, however. Sometimes the results of locatecan be
overwhelming, giving you too much information. Also, locateuses a database that is
usually only updated once a day, so if you just created a file a few minutes or a few
hours ago, it might not appear in this list until the next day. It’s worth knowing the
disadvantages of these basic commands so you can better decide when best to use each
one.

Finding Binaries with whereis
If you’re looking for a binary file, you can use the whereiscommand to locate it. This
command returns not only the location of the binary but also its source and man page if
they are available. Here’s an example:
kali >whereisairc
ra
ck
-ng
aircarck­ng: /usr/bin/aircarck­ng /usr/share/man/man1/aircarck­ng.1.gz
In this case, whereisreturned just the aircrack­ng binaries and man page, rather than
every occurrence of the word aircrack­ng. Much more efficient and illuminating, don’t
you think?

Finding Binaries in the PATH Variable with which
The whichcommand is even more specific: it only returns the location of the binaries in
the PATHvariable in Linux. We’ll look more closely at the PATHvariable in Chapter 7, but
for now it’s sufficient to know that PATHholds the directories in which the operating

system looks for the commands you execute at the command line. For example, when I
enter aircrack-ngon the command line, the operating system looks to the PATHvariable to
see in which directories it should look for aircrack­ng:
kali >whichaircra
ck
-n
g
/usr/bin/aircrack­ng
Here, whichwas able to find a single binary file in the directories listed in the PATH
variable. At minimum, these directories usually include /usr/bin, but may include
/usr/sbin and maybe a few others.

Performing More Powerful Searches with find
The findcommand is the most powerful and flexible of the searching utilities. It is
capable of beginning your search in any designated directory and looking for a number
of different parameters, including, of course, the filename but also the date of creation
or modification, the owner, the group, permissions, and the size.
Here’s the basic syntax for find:
find d
i
r
ector
yoption
se
xp
res
s
ion
So, if I wanted to search for a file with the name apache2 (the open source web server)
starting in the root directory, I would enter the following:
kali >find/➊ -t
yp
ef➋ na
mea
p
ac
h
e
2➌
First I state the directory in which to start the search, in this case /➊. Then I specify
which type of file to search for, in this case ffor an ordinary file ➋. Last, I give the name
of the file I’m searching for, in this case apache2➌.
My results for this search are shown here:
kali >find /-typ
ef-nameap
a
che
2
/usr/lib/apache2/mpm­itk/apache2
/usr/lib/apache2/mpm­event/apache2
/usr/lib/apache2/mpm­worker/apache2
/usr/lib/apache2/mpm­prefork/apache2
/etc/cron.daily/apache2

/etc/logrotate.d/apache2
/etc/init.d/apache2
/etc/default/apache2
The findcommand started at the top of the filesystem (/), went through every directory
looking for apache2 in the filename, and then listed all instances found.
As you might imagine, a search that looks in every directory can be slow. One way to
speed it up is to look only in the directory where you would expect to find the file(s) you
need. In this case, we are looking for a configuration file, so we could start the search in
the /etc directory, and Linux would only search as far as its subdirectories. Let’s try it:
kali >f
in
d/e
tc-t
yp
efna
mea
p
ac
h
e
2
/etc/init.d/apache2
/etc/logrotate.d/apache2
/etc/cron.daily/apache2
This much quicker search only found occurrences of apache2 in the /etc directory and
its subdirectories. It’s also important to note that unlike some other search commands,
fi
nddisplays only exact name matches. If the file apache2 has an extension, such as

apache2.conf, the search will not find a match. We can remedy this limitation by using
wildcards, which enable us to match multiple characters. Wildcards come in a few
different forms: *.,?and [].
Let’s look in the /etc directory for all files that begin with apache2 and have any
extension. For this, we could write a findcommand using the following wildcard:
kali >f
in
d/e
tc-t
yp
ef-n
amea
pa
c
h
e2
.
*
/etc/apache2/apache2.conf
When we run this command, we find that there is one file in the /etc directory that fits
the apache2.*pattern. When we use a period followed by the *wildcard, the terminal
looks for any extension after the filename apache2. This can be a very useful technique
for finding files where you don’t know the file extension.
When I run this command, I find two files that start with apache2 in the /etc directory,
including the apache2.conf file.

A QUICK LOOK AT WILDCARDS
Let’s say we’re doing a search on a directory that has the files cat, hat, what,
and bat. The ?wildcard is used to represent a single character, so a search
for ?atwould find hat, cat, and bat but not what, because at in this filename is
preceded by two letters. The []wildcard is used to match the characters that
appear inside the square brackets. For example, a search for [c,b]atwould
match cat and bat but not hat or what. Among the most widely used
wildcards is the asterisk (*), which matches any character(s) of any length,
from none to an unlimited number of characters. A search for *at, for
example, would find cat, hat, what, and bat.

Filtering with grep
Very often when using the command line, you’ll want to search for a particular
keyword. For this, you can use the grepcommand as a filter to search for keywords.
The grepcommand is often used when output is piped from one command to another. I
cover piping in Chapter 2, but for now, suffice it to say that Linux (and Windows for
that matter) allows us to take the output of one command and send it as input to
another command. This is called piping, and we use the |command to do it (the | key is
usually above the ENTER key on your keyboard).
The pscommand is used to display information about processes running on the
machine. We cover this in more detail in Chapter 6, but for this example, suppose I
want to see all the processes running on my Linux system. In this case, I can use the ps
(processes) command followed by the auxswitches to specify which process information
to display, like so:
kali >p
saux
This provides me with a listing of all the processes running in this system—but what if I
just want to find one process to see if it is running?
I can do this by piping the output from psto grepand searching for a keyword. For
instance, to find out whether the apache2 service is running, I would enter the
following.

kali >psaux|gre
pap
ache2
root 4851 0.2 0.7 37548 7668 ? Ss 10:14 0:00 /usr/sbin/apache2 ­k start
root 4906 0.0 0.4 37572 4228 ? S 10:14 0:00 /usr/sbin/apache2 ­k start
root 4910 0.0 0.4 37572 4228 ? Ss 10:14 0:00 /usr/sbin/apache2 ­k start
­­snip­­
This command tells Linux to display all my services and then send that output to grep,
which will look through the output for the keyword apache2 and then display only the
relevant output, thus saving me considerable time and my eyesight.

MODIFYING FILES AND DIRECTORIES
Once you’ve found your files and directories, you’ll want to be able to perform actions
on them. In this section, we look at how to create files and directories, copy files,
rename files, and delete files and directories.

Creating Files
There are many ways to create files in Linux, but for now we’ll just look at two simple
methods. The first is cat, which is short for concatenate, meaning to combine pieces
together (not a reference to your favorite domesticated feline). The catcommand is
generally used for displaying the contents of a file, but it can also be used to create
small files. For creating bigger files, it’s better to enter the code in a text editor such as
vim, emacs, leafpad, gedit, or kate and then save it as a file.

Concatenation with cat
The catcommand followed by a filename will display the contents of that file, but to
create a file, we follow the catcommand with a redirect, denoted with the >symbol, and
a name for the file we want to create. Here’s an example:
kali >cat>hackin
gs
ki
lls
Hacking is the most valuable skill set of the 21st century!
When you press ENTER, Linux will go into interactive mode and wait for you to start
entering content for the file. This can be puzzling because the prompt disappears, but if
you simply begin typing, whatever you enter will go into the file (in this case,
hackingskills). Here, I entered Hackingisthemostvaluableskillsetofthe21stcentury!.
To exit and return to the prompt, I press CTRL­D. Then, when I want to see what’s in
the file hackingskills, I enter the following:

kali >cathackings
ki
ll
s
Hacking is the most valuable skill set of the 21st century!
If you don’t use the redirect symbol, Linux will spit back the contents of your file.
To add, or append, more content to a file, you can use the catcommand with a double
redirect (>>), followed by whatever you want to add to the end of the file. Here’s an
example:
kali >cat>>hacki
ng
sk
ills
Everyone should learn hacking
Linux once again goes into interactive mode, waiting for content to append to the file.
When I enter Everyoneshouldlearnhackingand press CTRL­D, I am returned to the
prompt. Now, when I display the contents of that file with cat, I can see that the file has
been appended with Everyoneshouldlearnhacking, as shown here:
kali >cathackings
ki
ll
s
Hacking is the most valuable skill set of the 21st century! Everyone should
learn hacking
If I want to overwrite the file with new information, I can simply use the catcommand
with a single redirect again, as follows:
kali >cat>hackin
gs
ki
lls
Everyone in IT security without hacking skills is in the dark
kali >cathackings
ki
ll
s
Everyone in IT security without hacking skills is in the dark
As you can see here, Linux goes into interactive mode, and I enter the new text and then
exit back to the prompt. When I once again use catto see the content of the file, I see
that my previous words have been overwritten with the latest text.

File Creation with touch
The second command for file creation is touch. This command was originally developed
so a user could simply touch a file to change some of its details, such as the date it was
created or modified. However, if the file doesn’t already exist, this command creates
that file by default.

