■ CONTENTS

Post-Exploitation ................................................................................... 75
Summary ............................................................................................... 77
Exercises ............................................................................................... 77
■Chapter 6: Breaking Web Sites ..................................................... 79
Web Architecture ................................................................................... 80
Business Logic and Data ........................................................................................ 82
Architecture Protections ......................................................................................... 84
Asynchronous Javascript and XML (AJAX) ............................................................. 85

Common Web Application Attacks ......................................................... 86
Cross Site Scripting (XSS) ...................................................................................... 86
SQL Injection........................................................................................................... 87
Command Injection ................................................................................................. 88
XML External Entity Attacks .................................................................................... 89
Clickjacking Attacks ............................................................................................... 90
Cross Site Request Forgery .................................................................................... 90
Evasion Attacks ...................................................................................................... 91

Testing Strategies.................................................................................. 91
Automated Tools ..................................................................................................... 93
Passive Scanning ................................................................................................... 98

Practice Sites ........................................................................................ 99
Summary ............................................................................................. 100
Exercises ............................................................................................. 101
■Chapter 7: Reporting .................................................................. 103
Executive Summary ............................................................................ 104
Methodology........................................................................................ 106
Findings ............................................................................................... 107
Finding .................................................................................................................. 108
Recommendation.................................................................................................. 108
ix

■ CONTENTS

Evidence ............................................................................................................... 109
References............................................................................................................ 109
Informational ........................................................................................................ 109

Summary ............................................................................................. 109
Index .............................................................................................. 111

x

About the Author
Ric Messier, MS, GCIH, GSEC, CEH, CISSP, is the
program director for Cyber Security, Computer
Forensics and Digital Investigations, and Economic
Crime Investigation bachelor’s degree programs, as well
as the Information Security Operations and Digital
Forensic Science master’s degree programs, at
Champlain College.
Messier has been involved in the networking and
security arena since the early 1980s. He has worked
at companies ranging from large Internet service
providers to small software companies, developing
knowledge and experience about a range of topics
related to networking and security. Messier spent
more than four years at a large telecommunications hardware vendor doing penetration
testing and has spent the last six years doing security assessments, penetration tests, Web
application tests, and other consulting work for a number of clients.
As an author and an established expert in the field, Messier has published several
articles for Hackin9 Magazine, has developed a number of video training titles with
O’Reilly Media and has written a number of books on information security.

xi

About the Technical
Reviewers
Chris Williams has been involved in the IT security
field since 1994. He is a co-author of the book Enterprise
Cybersecurity: How to Build a Successful Cyberdefense
Program Against Advanced Threats (Apress, 2015) and
holds a patent for secure e-commerce technology. He
has been with Leidos since 2003, focusing on enterprise
cybersecurity, defense against advanced threats, and
regulatory compliance. He has presented on these
topics at RSA, (ISC)2, ISSA, B-Sides, HIMSS, MILCOM,
and other forums. He is a former ranger-qualified
paratrooper and holds degrees in computer science and
information assurance from Princeton and George
Washington Universities.
Dr. Stanley Siegel earned a nuclear physics doctorate
from Rutgers University. He has more than 40 years of
progressive experience as a systems engineer,
mathematician, and computer specialist. His career
started with the U.S. Government in the Commerce
Department and then the Defense Department. After
his government service, he was with Grumman for
15 years and Science Applications International
Corporation (SAIC) for over 20 years (before SAIC split
into two companies—SAIC and Leidos).
At SAIC he was a senior technical advisor
and director in areas such as software engineering
methodology assessment, software requirements
analysis, software testing and quality assurance, and
technology assessment.
He is a co-author of the book Enterprise Cybersecurity: How to Build a Successful
Cyberdefense Program Against Advanced Threats (Apress, 2015). Dr. Siegel has taught
software systems engineering graduate courses at Johns Hopkins University since the
mid-1990s. Johns Hopkins honored him in 2009 with an Excellence in Teaching Award.

xiii

Introduction
First, this is an introduction to the field of security assessments and penetration testing.
Becoming really good at these tasks takes a lot of work. You should use this as a starting
point. It is not a blueprint with a set of instructions for you to follow exactly on your way
to an exciting career in information security. The most important thing you can do is to
get your hands dirty and practice, practice, practice so you can keep growing your skills,
knowledge, and experience.
There are plenty of places to acquire software and systems to test against. The most
important thing you should know before you get started is that a lot of the tools and
techniques we are going to be talking about over the course of this book can cause system
outages and data loss or corruption. Once you start working with tools and programs
that are designed to break things, you can cause breakage. As a result, it’s essential that
you only work on systems that are yours to start with. Get yourself a lab and work there.
Virtual machines and free software are your friends here.
The moment that you start working with clients or employers performing
penetration testing or security assessments—and this can’t be said enough times—make
sure to get permission. Informed consent is your friend, because inevitably you will
cause some damage. Whether you intend to or not, you will run across a fragile system
or a piece of software that misbehaves. Outages will occur, so it’s best to make sure
everyone is on board with all of this. Let them know that you may cause outages and that
in very, very rare instances you may cause data loss or corruption. It happens. Once you
cause damage or downtime, the very last thing you want to do is to have the client or
your employer come back to you and say you didn’t let them know it was possible. Get
everything in writing.
Once you have everything in writing and everyone knows what is possible, you can
get started on all of the fun work, which is what you are about to do here. Keep in mind
that in spite of what you see on TV and in the movies, breaking into systems isn’t nearly as
simple, as a general rule, as a few taps of the keyboard. It’s tedious and can be a lot of hard
work. Once you’ve popped your first box, though, it makes the time and effort worth it.
Enjoy the ride!

xv

CHAPTER 1

What Is Penetration Testing?
Penetration testing is an art. You can learn a lot of techniques and understand all of the
tools, but the reality is that software is complex, especially when you start putting a lot of
software systems together. It’s that complexity that means that there is no one-size-fitsall solution when it comes to finding ways to get into systems. An attack that may work
against one Web server may not work for the same Web server running on a different
system. Sometimes, you can try a particular attack a number of times without success
before it suddenly starts working and you find a way to break into the system. A skilled
and successful penetration tester has not only the technical skills necessary to run the
tools and understand what is happening, but also the creativity necessary to try different
approaches.
You may hear penetration testing referred to as ethical hacking. In fact, there are
some professional certifications that include ethical hacking in the name. They are
essentially the same thing, though ethical hacking includes a component in the name
that penetration testing doesn’t. Ethics is an important component when it comes
to penetration testing. The name says it all, after all. You are testing to see if you can
penetrate system and network defenses. If you can penetrate, you gain some level of
access. In the course of normal operations, this may be access you may not otherwise
have, and this is where ethics come in, though in reality the ethical component is more of
a legal requirement.
The laws in the United States, and in many other countries, make it illegal to obtain
unauthorized access to computer systems and networks. Once you have gained the
access that is the point of a penetration test, you have broken the law. Unless, of course,
you have permission to do it. While you may not have accounts on the systems in
question, which would be explicit authorization, you should always have permission to
perform the test, which is an implicit authorization to gain access to the systems. This
permission is critical, and you may sometimes hear it referred to as a “get out of jail free”
card. While technically it’s more of a “stay out of jail” card than a “get out of jail” card, the
important word you don’t want to overlook is jail. If you think you are doing someone a
favor by testing their network or application security for them and that they will thank
you when you find a serious hole, think again. Even years ago when everyone wasn’t
exactly on edge about computer security, this wasn’t done by respectable professionals.
Performing any sort of penetration testing or using the tools we are going to be reviewing
against systems you don’t have an agreement in place to touch has the potential to land
you in jail.

© Ric Messier 2016
R. Messier, Penetration Testing Basics, DOI 10.1007/978-1-4842-1857-0_1

1

CHAPTER 1 ■ WHAT IS PENETRATION TESTING?

Breaking into systems can be fun and exciting, and some people really find
solving the puzzle and getting in to be a bit of a high. There are a lot of ways you can get
experience without testing on other people’s systems, however. Using virtual machine
software like VirtualBox, VMWare, or Parallels, you can install a number of operating
systems on a single computer system. In fact, I would strongly recommend getting some
virtual machines up and running so you can try out some of the techniques we will be
going over. At a minimum, you may want to have an installation of Kali Linux and a copy
of Metasploitable 2. Kali Linux is a Linux distribution that was once called BackTrack. It
contains a lot of security tools installed by default and can be used to perform penetration
tests with what’s in place in the distribution. Metasploitable 2 is an implementation of
Linux that is designed to be exploitable. It includes versions of various services that are
vulnerable to exploits and are available in the exploit framework Metasploit. A copy of an
older Windows installation may not be a bad idea either, just to see what Windows attacks
look like.

Information Security
Why do we perform penetration testing? Ultimately, the goal of a penetration tester is
to help an organization improve their defenses in case a real attacker comes by to break
in and steal information. This information can come in many forms. In the case of a
business, it may be intellectual property. This is any information that the business relies
on to set them apart from other companies. This may be patents, source code, or any
other documentation about how the business is run. Other forms of data are banking
information, credit card numbers, social security numbers, usernames, passwords, and
especially anything related to health care. Attackers may be trying to steal any of that
information, because it can be sold or used to gain additional access to other systems.

You will find I avoid the use of almost any form of the word hack. Hacking has a long
and storied history that predates its application to computers by several decades. When
I started using computers, hacking meant doing something really cool and interesting
with a computer. A hack was the result of that hacking. These days, hack and hacking are
apparently meant to suggest something else, but the way the media uses the words is very
vague and it obscures what is really going on. For the most part, when you hear about a
“hack” in the news, what you are hearing about is a crime. I find it’s best to call a crime
a crime. If we are talking about the people perpetrating that crime, we are talking about
criminals. In order to be very clear, you will be seeing the words attacker or adversary.
These are the people who are trying to break into your systems. You will see the word attack
used to indicate what they are doing. It’s essential to remember that there is nothing cute
or charming about what these people are doing. They are frequently well funded and well
organized, and their activities are run as a business because they make a lot of money from
them. Treat them as though they are armed and dangerous, because they are.

2

CHAPTER 1 ■ WHAT IS PENETRATION TESTING?

Organizations will spend a lot of time and resources trying to protect themselves
from these attacks. They will implement firewalls to keep attackers out and intrusion
detection systems to hopefully catch when someone gets through the firewall. They will
also implement procedures within the organization to protect themselves from insider
attacks, which are also common. This may include the requirement of strong passwords
or perhaps multi-factor authentication, which may require the user to have something
on them or even use something like a fingerprint in addition to using a username and
password.
The thing that organizations are trying to protect against is vulnerability. A
vulnerability is a weakness in a system. System, though, is a very vague term. By using
the word system, in this case, we are not only talking about the operating system and
applications that make your computer useful but also, in a larger context, all of the
computers and network devices within the entire enterprise network. The organization
will try to locate its weaknesses, or vulnerabilities, and either remove or reduce them.
The process of trying to remove or reduce a vulnerability is called remediation. When
you are trying to reduce the impact of a vulnerability being taken advantage of, you are
mitigating the impact. So, in the process of managing vulnerabilities, you will hear the
terms mitigation and remediation.
When you take advantage of a vulnerability, you are exploiting it. You will see
references to exploits as we continue, which are specific techniques or even pieces of
software that are designed to exploit a particular vulnerability. The point of an exploit
may be to obtain system-level access, meaning the attacker can see and even control files,
users, and services. Some of these actions require a higher level of access than a regular
user may have. On Windows systems, you would say that you have administrator access.
Under a Linux or Unix-like system, you may say that you have root or superuser access.
The user root is the default administrative account on a Unix-like system, including
Linux. If you are root, you can do anything on the system. If you are root and there is some
action you can’t take, there is probably something wrong.
The last thing to go over, while we are talking about information security and
vulnerability management, is the idea of probability and impact. When assessing a
vulnerability, a security professional will generally take into account two factors. The first
is the probability. This is often given a qualitative valuation like low, medium, or high.
What it refers to is the likelihood of a particular vulnerability being exploited. If there
is proof-of-concept code available or if there is flat out an exploit widely available (“in
the wild”), the likelihood may be very high. If you have additional mitigations in place,
like you have to be on the local network and not remote in order to take advantage of
the vulnerability, you may decide the probability is lower. Making this valuation and
categorization will often take a combination of knowledge and experience.
The other factor that is important to know about is the impact. This is what happens
if the exploit is triggered. If the exploit causes the application to crash but it comes right
back up, this is probably a low-impact exploit. If, on the other hand, it causes a remote
attacker to get unauthorized administrative access to your system, the impact is high. If it
causes the destruction of critical or sensitive information for the business, you may also
say it’s high impact. While this may be easier to gauge than probability, it still takes a fair
amount of knowledge and experience to be able to do it accurately.

3

CHAPTER 1 ■ WHAT IS PENETRATION TESTING?

It may be tempting to just rate high on impact and probability in order to get someone to pay
attention to a particular vulnerability, but you will quickly lose credibility. It’s not essential
that absolutely every vulnerability get fixed. Ensuring that the most critical ones get the most
attention is far more important. Be honest and based in facts and you will ensure that your
opinion means something.
One last thing to note. We have been talking about information security, and that’s
a phrase you will hear about a lot. The objective is to protect the information assets of
an organization. However, an attacker may not care about your information assets. They
may care more about your computing assets. In other words, they may simply be looking
to collect a system they can add to their network of systems that will perform tasks for
them. This is a very lucrative business, so don’t assume that just because you are a small
organization you aren’t a target. You are. Especially if you are easy for the picking. Your
systems and their computing power are just as good as those from large, high-profile
companies—more so if they are easy to break into.

Limitations of Penetration Testing
Penetration testing is looking for vulnerabilities and trying to exploit them. However,
there may be a tendency for some people and organizations to expect that all
vulnerabilities can be exploited quickly. In fact, when done well, penetration testing can
be a very time-consuming operation, and you often have a very limited amount of time
in order to perform your testing. If the organization is looking for the big bang, the one
big exploit that gives you the enormous haul of data, then something shy of that may be
viewed as an indication that they are safe. In fact, nothing could be further from the truth.
If you or the organization you are working for is myopic about the goal, you will
end up with generally poor results or, worse, will provide the organization with a false
sense of their safety. If you only find little things, you haven’t achieved your objective of
penetration. If you haven’t penetrated any system or haven’t penetrated any system in any
significant way, it may be seen as a sign that the system or application can’t be penetrated.
All it means is that you were unable to penetrate it given the time you had available when
that time was spent on a large number of systems. It’s critical to keep in mind that the
company’s adversaries are motivated and generally patient over a long period of time. If
you are a target for them, they will keep coming at you over a much longer period of time
than you will be provided with as you are doing your penetration test.
Often, penetration tests can be crippled before they even begin because of the rules
and constraints that are put into place. As an example, I have worked on engagements
where the client didn’t want specific systems and networks touched because they knew
they were fragile. A test that leaves out infrastructure that is known to be vulnerable
doesn’t provide a complete or accurate representation of the security posture of the
organization or how vulnerable they are. If the report is used in isolation without the
additional information, it is misleading.

4

CHAPTER 1 ■ WHAT IS PENETRATION TESTING?

Focusing on the act of penetration may not be doing the company you are working
for many favors. Instead, it may be better to perform a security assessment. This is partly a
penetration test, but it isn’t limited to just the components you were able to quickly break
into. You may be unable to find issues in the limited time you have. That doesn’t mean
there aren’t issues that need to be resolved. As an example, though it’s very, very lowhanging fruit, we often see Web servers configured to provide not only the name of the
software but also the version. Sometimes, even the Linux kernel version, if it’s on a Linux
system. Windows systems will sometimes provide details about the version of Windows
that the Internet Information Server (IIS) is running on. While these may not be terrible
problems, they provide far too much information to an attacker. Sure, they can probably
figure out some of this information in other ways, but why make their job easier? Make
them work for every bit of information they get. This is especially true when it’s really easy
to close some of the leakages. Turning off the feature that exposes version numbers from
a Web server is a couple of minutes of work. There is almost no reason to not take that
couple of minutes to just tighten up the perimeter.
This is the type of finding that doesn’t score many points if you are working on a
penetration test. A security assessment, though, is a different animal altogether. The
objective behind a security assessment is to give an honest and complete as possible
appraisal of the security posture a company has. You may turn up far more items in a
security assessment than you would in a penetration test. In a penetration test, you may
not be working in cooperation with the target. This is generally a mistake if the target
is looking to find ways to shore up defenses. Yes, you can test operational response
capabilities and you can get a sense of how far someone may be able to get without any
inside assistance, but as noted above that’s a false sense of security. Again, discovering
that someone couldn’t get in after working for three days doesn’t tell you anything about
your readiness against a determined attacker working around the clock for weeks.
The security assessment is a partnership between the security professional and
the target. This is usually a full-knowledge penetration test as well as a review of
configurations and settings that a penetration tester may never get to see. This is valuable
for two reasons. The first is because the attacker is going to keep poking and prodding
until something eventually gives. Second, some attacks happen from the inside. These
people will know about some of these settings and be able to make use of them. A security
assessment can turn up far more valuable information by just exposing business as usual
to a third party who isn’t looking at the way things are every day and becoming blind
to problems because “that’s just the way things are done here.” A security professional
performing a security assessment can provide an objective analysis of what is found so
issues can be prioritized by management and resolved.

Testing Types
The first is called a black box test. This is something like a traditional penetration test,
but on the extreme end. A black box test means the tester has no knowledge of the target
other than who the target is. The attacker may not know IP addresses, domain names, or
anything. This requires gathering a lot of intelligence up front. This can be a very valuable
exercise, since a company should always know how much information they are leaking to
the outside world that could be used to attack them. The information gathering will take

5

CHAPTER 1 ■ WHAT IS PENETRATION TESTING?

up a large amount of time, so it’s important to make sure that the time for that has been
scheduled in. You wouldn’t want to take two days out of four you have been allocated just
gathering information so you can start to perform your attacks.
When someone is performing a full-blown black box penetration test, it may be
a good chance to test response capabilities. In that case, you may have a red team,
also sometimes called a tiger team. The red team is the attack team. They are the ones
trying to get in. The ones on the inside, whether they are aware it’s happening or not
(and sometimes the operations staff has no idea in order to get a true sense of response
capabilities), are called the blue team. You may also have a white team, which is aware of
both ends of the equation. This is more common in competitions, however, and the white
team in that case is entirely neutral and manages the competition.

If you are interested in engaging in practice with your penetration testing and you want
to do it in a safe way that’s also quite challenging, there are a number of competitions
available online. These are sometimes called capture the flag competitions or cyber defense
competitions. Sometimes you work in teams, but there are also challenges where you can
work on your own to solve a particular puzzle to get into a system.
On the other end of the spectrum, closer to the security assessment mentioned
earlier, is the white box test. This is generally full knowledge. The attack team works
closely with the target. It may involve having credentials established ahead of time.
This allows the tester to perform full local (on-system) assessments without having to
penetrate before checking the local settings. You may have systems that appear to be very
hard on the outside, but once the system is popped it’s a soft, gooey mess on the inside.
This can be an enormous problem, so it’s helpful to check local hardening as well as
remote hardening. The operations team is generally informed and works with the attack
team to ensure that there is no impact to customers as a result of the testing.
In between the black box and the white box is the gray box. This is, not to sound flip,
a gray area. Each gray box test may be different because it’s somewhere between the black
and the white tests. One common approach may be to provide all of the initial parameters
up front. This would be the IP addresses and hostnames that are considered in play.
This way, the red team doesn’t have to spend time hunting down that information. This
approach also has the benefit of limiting the impact to systems that are clearly out of scope,
which may happen by accident if it’s a true black box test. Considering the sorts of activities
that may be happening here, keeping innocent bystanders out of play is important.
Determining how you plan to approach should ideally be based on an intersection
of the amount of time you have and what the client is really looking to accomplish. There
are always trade-offs associated with the different types of test you can do, so you should
talk the client or your employer through what you can do in the amount of time you have
been given. If they are concerned about what could be done once someone is in, a white
box test may be most in order. If they are really looking to get a sense of how they respond
to incidents, you may want to use a black box test. Black box testing will often spend a lot
of time on reconnaissance and less time on actually testing. Sometimes gray box testing
provides the best balance, but that’s something you need to make sure to communicate
about with the client.

6

CHAPTER 1 ■ WHAT IS PENETRATION TESTING?

Typically, testing is performed in a production environment. This provides the
best idea of how good the defenses are in the live systems. There is a risk to this,
however. Some companies may prefer some of the testing to be done in a protected lab
environment to avoid any impact to the live systems. This may be done to ensure that
the business can continue to take customers, but it may also be done if there is a concern
about data corruption or leakage as a result of the testing. Either of these cases is valid,
depending on the circumstances, but you have to be sure that the lab environment
mirrors the live environment as closely as absolutely possible or else it’s a waste to be
performing the testing to begin with.

Who Does Pen Testing
This is really a tricky question, and you may approach it from a couple of different angles.
First, you may be wondering about the types of people who may be performing this work.
This may come down to the types of knowledge or skills they have. Just because you are a
security professional doesn’t mean that you would be a good penetration tester. If you are
a firewall administrator, you would technically be a security professional, but you may not
be any good at doing penetration testing work. That doesn’t mean you wouldn’t be good
at it but the two don’t automatically go hand in hand.
Personally, I think it has far less to do with technical skills, since those can always
be taught or picked up. Someone who might be good at penetration testing is likely
someone who is very curious. This is someone who wouldn’t allow things to sit at face
value. As part of that, they would also be persistent. They would want to know more about
something and keep after a particular problem or challenge until they had either resolved
it or exhausted all possibilities. There is also a certain amount of creativity required of a
penetration tester. This is because you need someone who can come at a problem from
different perspectives and not just give up at a road block on the first attempt.
Sorting out this question is important if you are looking for someone internally to do
your testing for you. This brings up the important question of whether to use someone
internal to the organization or to go outside. If you use an outside organization, you get
the benefit of objectivity. Someone who is outside won’t know the way things work, and
so they likely won’t make assumptions. Anytime someone performing a penetration test
starts making assumptions, they run the risk of missing a lot of vulnerabilities. The same
can be just as true if you continue to use the same outside tester over and over again.
There ends up being too much familiarity. As an example, I had a client I was working
with several years ago. In the process of some testing early on, I inadvertently caused
a system to fail while doing some very basic scanning. The system was clearly far more
fragile than any of us expected, but that experience ended up coloring a lot of subsequent
testing over the next couple of years. We were always careful about how aggressive we
were. This includes the external team as well as the internal team.
Using someone internal, however, means that you theoretically have someone at
your disposal whenever you need them, and you can do a lot of incremental testing. As
with anything else, though, there are advantages and disadvantages to this. If you look too
much at something, you may miss a change because you start to assume too much. Also,
unless you can pay someone whose sole purpose is to perform this sort of testing, you are
losing productivity from someone who may have other things to do if you are using them
regularly for penetration testing.

7

CHAPTER 1 ■ WHAT IS PENETRATION TESTING?

In terms of finding someone to perform penetration testing, there are a lot of things
to consider. If you are someone who is looking to become a penetration tester yourself, as
seems likely considering what you are reading, prepare to spend some time learning not
only about basic penetration testing practices but also about how complex IT systems are
built, including programming languages, databases, and system administration. These
will all help you be a better penetration tester and more deeply understand what it is you
are doing. This will make you in more demand. The larger your toolkit is, the more people
will want to make use of you.

Methodology
There are a number of methodologies available when it comes to performing security
testing. You can go find one you like, whether it’s deep in scope or just very simple. You
can develop your own, and you may want to do just that once you start getting the hang
of what you are doing. For our purposes, we will be using a very simplified framework. As
you start doing your own penetration testing, no matter what methodology you use—and
you will need to use some sort of methodology—you will want to communicate that
methodology to your clients or employers.
The reason for using a methodology is to demonstrate that what you have done is
repeatable. You weren’t just shooting in the dark. You actually thought through what you
were doing. Providing your methodology, at a high level, demonstrates that you are using
a documented process, even if you are flying by the seat of your pants in each individual
moment. Providing the methodology will generally give more weight to your testing and
your conclusions. If I were to just provide a bunch of conclusions, and they had no idea
how I had come to those conclusions, the whole thing may be harder to swallow. It’s just
like you were in math class. Show your work.
The methodology we will be using in this book is a modified version of a common
methodology I would use when working with a client. It will allow us to get right to the
meat of penetration testing. With that said, this methodology is simplified somewhat.
There will be a number of areas that we won’t get into that will come up as you keep
working, including the following:
1.

8

Intelligence gathering – this is reconnaissance work against
your target and will vary based on how much information
you were provided before the engagement. Even if you were
provided the entire scope, you will probably want to perform
some reconnaissance so you can provide guidance to the
client as to how exposed they are from an information leakage
perspective.

CHAPTER 1 ■ WHAT IS PENETRATION TESTING?

2.

Scanning – this is a different level of reconnaissance. Before
you start determining your attack strategy, you need to know
what your targets are. This will provide you with a lot of
information about systems and ports as well as, potentially,
any firewalls that may be in place. This is also where you may
need to exercise caution, depending on what level of testing
you are performing. This can be a very noisy step, since you
are starting to engage directly with the target here. It may be
useful for the client to see if they can detect the scanning as
part of shoring up their defensive stance.

3.

Vulnerability identification – once you have some target
systems and applications identified, getting a list of known
vulnerabilities will tell you where you can quickly and easily
get in. You may use a number of techniques to perform this
step. Some of them may be automated, but others will be very
manual.

4.

Exploitation – the vulnerabilities that you have identified will
lead you to exploitation. This is where you actually begin to
penetrate the systems by exploiting the vulnerabilities that
you have identified. This step can be very time consuming and
also heart breaking, simply because a vulnerability doesn’t
always lead to a system compromise. Some vulnerabilities are
very difficult to exploit, and other exploits may just not work.
You may end up finding a lot of false positives in this stage
where the vulnerability was identified but the expected exploit
didn’t work.

5.

Reporting – once you are done, make sure to clearly
document all of your findings so you have something tangible
and coherent to present to your employer or client. This stage
is essential. For all the fun that you can have doing the first
four steps, if you don’t do a good job with this one, you won’t
get asked back to play again, and word may eventually get
around so that no one will ask you in to play with their toys.
Spend time learning to write a good and effective report.

In reality, some of these stages may be collapsed, depending on how much time
you are working with. Some of the automated tools that you may find to use will do
much of this in a single step. Don’t rely on the automated tools, however. Always double
check your results, and don’t assume that they will always find vulnerabilities or that the
vulnerabilities they find will always be exploitable. This is why it’s always a good idea
to do all of this work separately, even if you have a tool that will do a bunch of it all at
the same time. The fact is that, while various methodologies are designed to mimic the
actions of an attacker, attackers aren’t always following these steps. They may simply do
a port scan or a port sweep and then launch attacks once they have identified open ports
that may be vulnerable. For the most part, there is almost no cost to blindly launching
attacks.

9

CHAPTER 1 ■ WHAT IS PENETRATION TESTING?

Summary
Anyone can be a penetration tester. Good penetration testers require experience and
knowledge, just as someone who is good at any other profession. Penetration testing is
as much an art as it is anything else, in spite of its being a highly technical profession.
That’s because something that works one day may not work the following day. Software is
complex. Being able to handle the differences from one day to another and accommodate
those differences is an important part of the job and a big part of what makes it an art.
There is never a clear step-by-step process all the way through every penetration test. You
will have to be a little creative, a lot persistent, and a lot resilient. Patience and persistence
will get you a long way toward success.
As you prepare to become a penetration tester, you should keep in mind the
expected ethical obligations. If you just want to go out and break into systems without
regard to laws, you are free to do that, of course. That doesn’t make you a penetration
tester, though. It makes you a criminal, and it’s entirely possible that you won’t be free for
much longer. Always, always get complete agreement from your target about what it is you
are expected to be doing. As you are learning, either find someone or some organization
that is very understanding and lenient that will let you try things out on their systems, or,
better yet, get yourself a small lab system that you can work on. There are a number of
ways to do this. The cheapest is to get a system with a lot of memory in it and build virtual
machines. This doesn’t have to be very expensive. Just about any modern computer will
work for what you need it for. You can then get free software like VirtualBox to host your
virtual machines.
As you start to get into penetration testing, pay attention to the steps you are
following. As you get comfortable with following a fairly regular routine, you develop
your methodology. It’s probably helpful to document that. You will likely want to use the
documentation you produce in reports you generate for your employer or customers.
Educating your client will improve your relationship with them, give them more for
their money, and also clearly demonstrate your value. Many penetration testers deliver
reports highlighting everything they were able to do without clearly explaining what
happened or what can be done about it. Providing clear and complete documentation
will also establish that you are following a process and not just shooting from the hip with
everything you are doing.

Exercises
1.

10

Obtain a copy of VirtualBox, or VMWare or Parallels if you are
more comfortable with them. Install it on your system. You
can obtain VirtualBox from http://www.virtualbox.org. It
will be a straightforward installation, and you shouldn’t need
to do anything other than accept the defaults for any prompts.

CHAPTER 1 ■ WHAT IS PENETRATION TESTING?

2.

Obtain a copy of Kali Linux. This will be an .ISO image that
you will use to install Kali into a virtual machine. You can
download the current .ISO from http://www.kali.org.
VirtualBox will allow you to install a new operating system
from the .ISO image you have downloaded. Again, installation
of Kali should be fairly straightforward. Accept defaults within
the installation, since a default Kali installation will get you
going for our purposes.

3.

Obtain a copy of Metasploitable 2. There are different places
to get this. You should use Google, Bing, or your favorite
search tool to look for a place from which to download it. It
will make for a good target for some of what we will be doing.
This does not require installation. It is a VMWare image that
you should be able to just open in any virtualization software
that you have, including VirtualBox.

11

CHAPTER 2

Digging for Information
The first step along our path to system conquest is digging up information on the
target. Fortunately, in the connected age that we live in, there is a lot of information
that is available online somewhere if you know how and where to look for it. The easy
availability of information means that there is a lot of it easily available. Of course, there
are privacy issues related to all of the information that is so easily available, but for the
moment we aren’t concerned about privacy. In fact, we will be grateful for the freeflowing information that you will find you have access to without having to resort to any
trickery, deceit, or law breaking. Not even any potential law breaking. You may be aware
of stories of dumpster diving and other means of obtaining information from the days
long before information became so free and easy to come by. These sorts of tactics are
almost entirely unnecessary.
For a start, you have Google. In addition to the unbelievable volume of information
accessible via Google, there are a number of techniques you can use to improve your
searches. Google provides a number of ways to dial in pretty tightly on the information
you are looking for so you aren’t wading through a large number of pages just to find
the one piece of information you are looking for. You can think of it as an automated hay
filter as you are searching for your needle. While Google hacking, as it is called, is very
powerful, it’s not perfect. You may still need to do a lot of manual filtering and reading.
Beyond Google, there are a number of sites that can be used to gather information
about targets. Social networking sites are often good places to go to acquire information,
and certainly job sites are great repositories of information, especially when it comes to
gathering technical information about your target. Depending on the awareness levels
of the company you are working with, you may be able to turn up a large amount of
information that is, again, stored in very public locations.
While the Internet is mostly decentralized, there are some cases where there are
central repositories of information. These repositories are called Regional Internet
Registries (RIRs), and they can be useful in acquiring information about a business. This
may include information about domain registrations and IP addresses that are assigned
to the business. In general, this is public information, though some details, specifically
those associated with domain registrations, may be masked. When it comes to IP
addresses, though, it’s all public. Mining these repositories can sometimes turn up useful
information, including contact data.
Using a combination of all of these sites and tactics, you will be able to gather a lot of
information about your target.

© Ric Messier 2016
R. Messier, Penetration Testing Basics, DOI 10.1007/978-1-4842-1857-0_2

13

CHAPTER 2 ■ DIGGING FOR INFORMATION

Google Hacking
The phrase Google hacking sounds incredibly cool, and in some ways it really is, with
applications far beyond what we are talking about. However, in spite of the name, this
is not an attack on Google in any way. Instead, it’s a way of using a number of keywords
that Google has implemented in their search engine to help you get the narrowest of
results possible. Long gone are the days of 1,589,341 pages returned from your search.
Instead, you can get very, very specific using a different type of searching. It’s called
Google hacking, but in reality, other search engines have implemented many of the same
keywords. If you really love another search engine instead of Google, you should try
some of these out to see if they work there. Table 2-1 shows the keywords that Google has
introduced to allow you to narrow results.
Table 2-1. Google Hacking Keywords

Operator

Description

intitle

Looks for the search terms in the title

allintitle

Looks for the search terms only in the title and nowhere else in the
document

inurl

Looks through the URL (the address) for the search terms

allinurl

Similar to allintitle, looks only in the URL for the search terms

filetype

You provide the filetype and search terms. All results have that filetype.

allintext

The search will not look at the URL and just in the text.

site

Narrow your search to a particular site. You have to provide the site as
well as search terms.

link

Searches for links to pages

inanchor

This search will look in anchor tags only

numrange

Searches for a number

daterange

Results will be within a range of dates, as specified

author

Searches Google Groups for a particular author. This only works in
Google Groups.

group

Looks for a group name. This only works in Google Groups.

insubject

Searches subject lines in posts. This only works in Google Groups.

msgid

Searches within a group for a message ID.

Google is not only a search engine for Web pages. It is also used for searching
images, groups, and news. Google hosts groups, which are similar to mailing lists or
the old Usenet groups. They can be used exclusively online, but they can also be used
with e-mail. Additionally, Google will allow you to search through news. This is a way of
getting to a collection of sources of news information as defined by Google. If you had a
particular breaking event you wanted to know about, you would search through Google
News in order to locate information about it.

14

CHAPTER 2 ■ DIGGING FOR INFORMATION

As you can see from the keywords, though, you can start to really narrow in on
your subject matter. As an example, you can see in Figure 2-1 a search designed to
find all of the Excel spreadsheets on the microsoft.com site that include the words
Microsoft Windows. In order to pull this particular search off, we used the filetype
and site keywords.

Figure 2-1. Google hacking keywords
There are, of course, a number of far more useful searches that you can use to get
more interesting information than just a list of Excel spreadsheets from Microsoft’s Web
site. You could look for sites that include directory listings. Most Web sites should have
directory listings turned off, because the administrators don’t want you to get direct access
to all of the files there. They may be using some as background files, and those may include
things like passwords. This may be especially true in the case of any configuration file.

15

CHAPTER 2 ■ DIGGING FOR INFORMATION

Web servers have a root directory or folder for each site the server is responsible for. All
pages that are served up from that Web server would be under that root directory or folder.
Web servers use index pages, meaning specific pages that are served up automatically if
no specific page is requested. If there is no index page and the server is configured to allow
it, which is uncommon, the server will present a list of all of the files and folders in the
directory.
In order to locate Web sites that have directory listings turned on, we turn to the use
of another keyword, intitle. When a Web site is showing a list of its files within a given
directory, it will commonly put the words “Index of” in the title of the page. So, if we use
the intitle keyword and look for “Index of” we should get back pages that have directory
listings turned on. You may take it a step further and look for specific filetypes. If the directory
listing has a .txt file, for instance, that may be of particular interest. This may include
the robots.txt file, which may include a listing of all the files that the Web administrator
does not want search engines to look at. The reason for this is often that there is sensitive
information within these files, and so the site owner doesn’t want them easily found.
If you find yourself at a loss for interesting things to search for, you can go
to the Google Hacking Database (GHDB). As of this writing, it is located at
https://www.exploit-db.org/google-hacking-database/, though given the fluid
nature of the Internet, the URL may be prone to change over time. The best way to find it
is with a quick Google search. The Google Hacking Database is a repository of interesting
searches that can be used to turn up a wide variety of results. In Figure 2-2, you can
see the categories of searches that can be found. You can do a lot of looking for various
devices that belong to the “Internet of Things,” as it’s called. You can find Web cams, look
for specific error messages given by applications, find vulnerable systems, and do a lot of
other very targeted searching using Google hacking. This is a great starting point if your
creativity is a bit tapped as to where to go with the search you are trying to do.

Figure 2-2. Google Hacking Database categories

16

CHAPTER 2 ■ DIGGING FOR INFORMATION

GHDB includes a lot of canned search terms that can be used without having to
figure them out on your own. Of course, while there is a lot of temptation within the
database, keep in mind that you are only working on the client who has contracted
your services. Starting to play around with things like login portals to see what you can
accomplish with some default usernames and passwords is not only unethical, but it may
also be considered illegal if it is out of scope of your engagement or is conducted against
a Web site that you do not have permission to access. As always, tread carefully. When
working for a customer, it is important to tack on the site: keyword to look specifically
within the domain of your client for some of these issues. Remembering to use the site:
keyword to restrict your searches to only your client will help to keep you out of trouble.
When you combine some of the techniques associated with Google hacking
with information you can gain using other sources, you may be able to identify some
vulnerabilities. As one good example, you can use the site: tag with search terms,
such as error messages, to identify vulnerabilities within the infrastructure of your
target company. This is especially true with Web applications. A Web application that is
vulnerable to attack will often generate specific error messages. You may be able to search
for instances of error messages within Web pages belonging to your target. "Google
hacking" can save you a lot of time by seeing whether an error was ever turned up as part
of a crawl of sites belonging to your target.
Using the keywords that Google provides can give you some very targeted results.
Many of these terms can be combined to make your searches quite powerful. If you
are interested in learning more or getting some ideas about how to make your Google
searches more effective, the Google Hacking Database is a great resource. You may also
find that some of the keywords work on other search sites as well.

Social Networking
Google is not the only place from which to get a lot of juicy information. There is a lot
to be found on social networking sites. Twitter, being a big public forum, may be really
helpful if you do some judicious searching. In the case where you have a specific client,
do a search like the one you can see in Figure 2-3. Rather than looking for something that
may include potentially exploitable information, this particular example search is boring.
It is simply for the publisher of this book to demonstrate the process. If you are working
with a company, you may find that they post job listings or reference specific skills they
are looking for. There may be a number of useful and interesting posts related to what
they have going on in-house, and any of that information can potentially be used down
the road. Technical information is always gold, like any employee skills they reference or
any vendors they work with, but there could be a number of other references that could
be used in a social engineering attack later on.

17

CHAPTER 2 ■ DIGGING FOR INFORMATION

Figure 2-3. Twitter search results
Twitter isn’t the only social networking site that can be trolled for information.
Facebook is another such site, though it has a range of permission settings that may make
it harder to locate information than it is commonly for Twitter. There was once a public
Application Programming Interface (API) that anyone could use to query Facebook for
information. This has now been all but shut down. In order to get anything of any interest,
you have to have an account with the right permissions. In other words, if you are looking
for posts from a particular person and those posts have been set to only be available
to friends, you would have to be a friend of that person to acquire the information.
Businesses may make public posts, but the API and information available isn’t nearly as
open as it used to be. While the API was commonly used only to query public posts, you
may be surprised to see how many posts are made public by people who simply didn’t
know any better. A few years ago, the Web site weknowwhatyouredoing.com, written by
one young man by himself, pulled a collection of statuses related to doing drugs and
saying bad things about your company. He was able to do this because of the public API
that Facebook published. The site no longer exists because the public API no longer
exists.

18

CHAPTER 2 ■ DIGGING FOR INFORMATION

The fact that the public API isn’t there anymore doesn’t mean that you can’t
connect to Facebook and go browsing a little yourself. The nice thing about Facebook
is that no one can see you’re doing a little stalking. The same can’t be similarly said
of LinkedIn. LinkedIn is also a social networking site, but rather than being primarily
personal in nature, as Facebook is, it is more business focused. Over time, LinkedIn has
added a variety of features from other social networking sites, including status updates.
These status updates may provide a lot of useful information, sometimes including job
availabilities with a short set of requirements.
One downside to LinkedIn, unlike other social networking sites, is if you go visit
someone’s LinkedIn profile, they will get a notice that you stopped by. This may or may
not be what you want. However, there is a wealth of information that is available in
LinkedIn. It’s more or less a very public repository of resumes from all over the world.
As is often the case with resumes, the LinkedIn profiles include a lot of details about job
responsibilities people had when they were at the companies that show up in their work
history. If you can see the list of technologies that someone has been working on at a
company, you can determine the types of infrastructure that company is using. You can
see a sample of that in Figure 2-4. This is from an employee at a company that has used
Juniper and Cisco equipment in their networks. They also used Nortel equipment. From
this list, we can determine the types of systems for which we could look for vulnerabilities.
This may yield pathways into the network for us.

Figure 2-4. List of technologies from LinkedIn

19

CHAPTER 2 ■ DIGGING FOR INFORMATION

The great thing about LinkedIn is that, unlike on other social networking sites like
Facebook, information is public. LinkedIn works best if people can see one another and
what they have done. It’s a great way of locating potential employers or learning more
about potential employees, vendors, or partners. It’s a great site for a lot of reasons. When
it comes to locating information about infrastructure, LinkedIn is not the only source,
however. Any job site could be used. In Figure 2-5, you can see a small section of a job
listing for a security engineer position at an unspecified company. This job listing tells us
that the company uses Cisco within their network and also does work with VMWare. Both
of these facts can be used as you are looking for information about your target.

Figure 2-5. Job Listing
While this doesn’t tell us a lot, it’s a starting point. If you can put it together with other
information that you have already gained, you may get a lot more traction. Sometimes
you can use information from a variety of sources in order to get a better understanding
of what is going on at your target. You can get information from ex-employees via sites
like LinkedIn, where they may provide a list of vendor-specific skills they made use of
at an employer. This may tell you that the target uses, for example, Palo Alto Networks
equipment or Cisco equipment. If you find a job listing from after the tenure of the exemployee indicating a different set of equipment, you may draw the conclusion that this
is a newer deployment that may not have all of the bugs and configuration settings shaken
out yet, so it may be a ripe target. Of course, it could also just be a separate location,
though in larger companies they may use the same equipment vendors across all sites
for uniformity and cost savings from buying in bulk. You would have to do some poking
and prodding on the network in order to determine what you are dealing with, but this
information that you gather from job sites may be valuable as a starting point.

Internet Registries
Companies that have a presence on the Internet have to register information in various
places. As the Internet has grown, the number of locations where this information is stored
has increased. When a company registers a domain name, such as apress.com, it has
to provide contact information that is stored with the Internet Corporation for Assigned
Names and Numbers (ICANN). There are a number of registrars who will provide the
interface for the consumer and manage that interface, but there is a single repository
for all of the data that is captured. Fortunately, there is a single tool that is used to gather
information from this repository. Figure 2-6 shows the use of the tool whois from a
command line. You provide a domain name and whois gathers all of the information about
that domain. The problem with these databases is that they have long been used to extract
contacts that are then used for various marketing and spam purposes. Consequently,
many companies are using "private" registrations, which block the whois tool from
revealing contact information about the people who registered the domain. What you will
get back from your whois query is an indication that the contact information is hidden, so
you won’t have any company-specific information to work with.

20

CHAPTER 2 ■ DIGGING FOR INFORMATION

Figure 2-6. Whois request
Even if you can’t get contact information, you can get other information back from a
whois request that can’t be withheld or blocked, such as who the registrar for the domain
is as well as the creation date and the date the information about the domain was last
updated. This isn’t nearly as interesting as getting names, phone numbers, addresses
and e-mail addresses associated with the domain, but it’s something. You may also
find domains where the registration hasn’t been turned private, so you may be able to
obtain other information about the domain registration. There are a number of ways of
obtaining whois information, including using a command line whois program on any
Unix-like operating system, like Linux or Mac OS X, as shown in Figure 2-6. There are
also Web interfaces that you can use that are available from any system, including mobile
devices.
In addition to being responsible for domain registrations, ICANN is also responsible
for handing out Internet Protocol (IP) address allocations through one of its departments,
the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA). IANA manages registrations for IP
addresses and the well-known ports (ports for well-known services like Web and e-mail),
among other things. IANA distributes network address blocks to the Regional Internet
Registries (RIRs), including the American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN), Reseaux
IP Europeens (RIPE), Asia Pacific Network Information Center (APNIC), Latin America
Network Information Center (LACNIC), and the African Network Information Center
(AfriNIC). Each of these registries maintains its own database of information indicating
who owns IP address blocks as well as information about the organization and its contact
information. There is a long tradition of registrations, like domain names and IP address
block ownership, including a technical and administrative contact at a minimum. If
you look up an IP address using whois, you will get the organization information as
well as contact information. Companies that are concerned with exposure of internal
information will generally hide behind generic contact information.

21

CHAPTER 2 ■ DIGGING FOR INFORMATION

Even in cases where the information is generic, you can gather a lot of details from
a whois lookup on an IP address. In Figure 2-7, you can see a whois request against an
IP address. In the response, you can see the range of addresses that the one IP address
belongs to. You can see whether the IP address belongs to a small block or a much larger
block. This will help you to scope your investigation. You may be given a single IP address,
or you may discover a single IP address if you haven’t been provided much information
from your target. Getting the full block will give you other addresses you can look at. This
will also protect you from mistakenly poking at another IP address that doesn’t actually
belong to the company you are working with.

Figure 2-7. Whois request on an IP address
Whois implementations differ, unfortunately. Some whois implementations will
only tell you which RIR owns the piece of information you are looking for. You may
need to actually specify which RIR you want to query. In Figure 2-7, you can see that the
host whois.apnic.net was specified as the system to query for the information about
the IP address 1.1.1.1. Generally, each RIR has a hostname called whois that handles

22

CHAPTER 2 ■ DIGGING FOR INFORMATION

these queries. For APNIC, whois.apnic.net handles the requests and for ARIN, it’s
whois.arin.net. The other RIRs have similar hostnames. You can see in Figure 2-7
that the organization owns the block 1.1.1.0-1.1.1.255. In some cases, you may see that
there is an organization that owns a larger block, but that a more specific block has
been granted to another organization. Being able to determine who owns particular
addresses is very helpful.
In some cases, you may be able to identify a particular IP address as being used by
a company for a Web or e-mail server when in fact the IP address may belong to another
company altogether. This may tell you that the company you are targeting has outsourced
hosting of some of its services to a provider rather than hosting them in house.
In order to allow everyone on the Internet to get to the places they want to go, there
is a wealth of information available from a handful of repositories. These repositories,
regional Internet registries, can provide information like contact addresses or ranges of IP
addresses. You may also discover that the company is concerned about the information
they provide. In cases where you don’t get any contact information because it is being
hidden by the registrar, you will know that the company has taken at least some simple
steps to protect itself. That information may be useful as you go forward because you will
know you are taking on an adversary that has some protections in place.

Summary
The most important skill that you can take away here is that of Google hacking. Google
hacking makes use of specific keywords to help narrow your search parameters to
get very specific results back. With this information you can better identify points of
weakness within the infrastructure, but you may also turn up confidential memos or
other documents that may provide useful information like usernames or passwords.
Many companies have no idea just what is being stored within their Web-accessible
systems, which Google may be scouring and cataloging on a regular basis. Google
hacking keywords can help you reduce the haystack you are searching through down to
a few strands of hay that may be obscuring the needle you are looking for. Even outside
of penetration testing, Google hacking is an incredibly useful skill to have. The more you
use those keywords, the more they become second nature and reduce the time that you
spend looking for information within Google.
There are a number of locations in which you can gather information related to a
company, often without touching the company at all. In today’s world, companies need
to maintain a presence in the Internet world and often have more of a presence than they
realize, simply because they can’t always control what current and former employees
say or do. This means that social networking sites like Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn
can be very valuable resources for you as a penetration tester. You can often very easily
determine what vendors the company is using within its infrastructure, which can
provide you a leg up on finding ways in. Often, job descriptions or LinkedIn profiles can
be very specific about the technologies that are in use.

23

CHAPTER 2 ■ DIGGING FOR INFORMATION

In addition, you can also make use of the various Internet registries that are used
to maintain all of the information related to domain names and IP addresses, which are
global across the entire Internet. Often, these will come with physical addresses and even
contact names, e-mail addresses, and phone numbers. You can use this information
for phishing or other social engineering attacks. Depending on the attack techniques
you are using, this information may be even more valuable than the technical details of
infrastructure vendors.

Exercises

24

1.

Use Google hacking techniques to obtain a list of Web sites
that provide you access to a Web cam that has an admin login.

2.

Use whois, either from the command line if you are using
Linux or Mac OS or through one of the many Web interfaces,
to get all of the information you can about Apress. Then, look
for the information about the company you are working for.

3.

Use whois to gather information about IP addresses, including
4.2.2.1 and 8.8.8.8. Both of these addresses belong to wellknown domain name servers.

4.

Use Google hacking to locate Web server pages that have
generated 500 Internal Server Error responses. The 500
Internal Server error indicates that the server has run into a
problem with the request and can be an indication of either
a programming error or a misconfiguration. Either of these
possibilities could potentially be exploited.

5.

Use Google hacking to get a list of PDFs that may be stored at
ICANN.

CHAPTER 3

What’s Open?
Commonly at this point, whether you were provided some starting places or you figured
some out as you were poking around in Google or the Internet registries, you have at least
some IP addresses or maybe hostnames to work with. In either case, the domain name
system (DNS) is one of the next steps. At a minimum, having a better understanding
of the structure and use of DNS is important. The DNS is where Internet Protocol (IP)
addresses are mapped to hostnames and vice versa. There are some really useful tools
that are commonly used when prowling around DNS, and we’re going to take a look at
those tools, since you likely want to figure out in more detail just what you are looking at
and where it might be.
At this point, we have some places to start—we can use DNS to get us additional
information based on what we have, whether it’s an IP address or a domain name. Using
DNS, we can look up hostnames from IP addresses. DNS also stores something called
resource records. A resource record indicates the function of particular hostnames or IP
addresses. Using tools designed to query the DNS servers, we can obtain this information
and make use of it to get a better understanding of the systems that may be used at a
company. We can determine where the Web servers are, what systems are used to send
e-mail, and the IP addresses associated with those systems. These hostnames and the IP
addresses associated with them will provide some additional places in which to do more
direct poking and prodding of our targets.
The objective of finding these hosts is so we can see what applications are running
on them, since, ultimately, it will be these applications that will be our targets. We can
determine which applications are listening on network ports using port scanners like
nmap. There are other port scanners out there, and maybe even some that are faster than
nmap, but none are more venerable or useful. Once we have the port, nmap may also
be able to give us the name of the application. We may also be able to use some other
tools to interact more directly with the underlying application so as to determine the
exact software that is running. Knowing there is a Web server on port 80, for example,
doesn’t tell us a whole lot. Ideally, we would like to know the name of the software being
used, like Apache or IIS or Nginx, and the version number. nmap can sometimes get that
information, though there are other ways as well.

© Ric Messier 2016
R. Messier, Penetration Testing Basics, DOI 10.1007/978-1-4842-1857-0_3

25

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

Domain Name System
First, let’s talk about the domain name system (DNS) and how it’s all put together. The
reason for using DNS is because humans can’t memorize numbers very well and the
Internet relies on numerical addresses, called IP addresses. In order for humans to be
able to provide addresses that are meaningful to them, there has to be a system that can
translate the human-readable address to a machine-readable address and vice versa.
DNS provides this function, as well as some others on top.
DNS is organized in a hierarchy. At the very top are the top-level domains (TLDs).
These include .com, .net, .org, .edu, and all of the country-specific domains. You can see
a diagram of the DNS hierarchy in Figure 3-1. Underneath the TLDs are the second-level
domains. In the diagram, you can see wubble.com, foo.com, and others that show up
as second-level domains. Each of these domains contains the actual hostname, though
they may also have third-tier domains, called subdomains. For example, if wubble.com
had a little group that wanted its own subdomain, it may be offshoot.wubble.com, as an
example. Underneath that you may have hostnames like www.offshoot.wubble.com.

A domain name is a container for DNS records, including hostnames, but the domain name
itself can also have an IP address associated with it. In Figure 3-1, foo.com is a domain
name, which may include the hostname www, and www.foo.com may have the IP address
of 172.20.42.5, but foo.com may also have its own IP address. That IP address may be
something completely different, like 172.30.15.6. The hostname and the domain name
together, www.foo.com, is called a fully qualified domain name (FQDN).

Figure 3-1. DNS diagram

Each hostname, like www.wubble.com or www.microsoft.com, is really just a way
for us to be able to use something other than an IP address, since we aren’t as good at
remembering numbers as we are at associating names to things. When you are looking up
the IP address that belongs to a hostname, you perform something called a recursive DNS
query. Recursive query means that you start in one place and it points you to somewhere
else, and you keep doing this process until you get the answer you are looking for. All of
the information you are looking for is stored within systems typically called name servers.

26

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

The authoritative name server is the server that has the most accurate information about
the hostname or the IP address, but in order to get to the authoritative server, a query
starts at a local or caching server. The local or caching server will start the process.
The very first thing that happens when you go looking for an IP address for a
hostname is that you initiate a request for an A record, or an address record, from your
local caching name server. This is typically a server either within your enterprise or
in one provided by your service provider. When you go asking for www.wubble.com,
your client will make a request to your caching server, and that server will see if it has
the information stored locally. If it doesn’t, it has to go find the answer for you from
an authoritative server. The first place it goes is the very top of the diagram shown in
Figure 3-1. These are called root name servers, and they provide information about where
you can find the second-level domain name server, which would be the authoritative
server for the domain. So, the caching server will send a query for an NS record to the
root server associated with the .com domain, whose address it already knows, looking for
name servers associated with wubble.com. The root server will reply with the information
for the name servers for the domain requested. The caching server then issues a request
to the IP address of the authoritative DNS server asking for www.wubble.com. Once DNS
finds the authoritative server for the wubble.com domain, the caching server should stop
searching.

While A records are the ones you will most commonly make use of, DNS supports many
other record types. An SOA record, or start of authority record, keeps track of information
like the last time the zone for that domain was updated. An MX, or mail exchanger record
can tell you which server or IP address is the one to send mail to for a particular domain.
The NS record indicates the name servers that are associated with the domain. An A
record is an address record, indicating an IP address that is associated with a hostname,
while a PTR record does the reverse by resolving an IP address to a hostname. There are
also RR records, which indicate other resources that may be associated with the domain.
A CNAME record is a canonical name, which is just an alias. Using a CNAME record, you
make a hostname refer to another hostname. As an example, you might have the hostname
transfer be a CNAME for ftp and the hostname ftp be an A record. This means you
only have to change a single A record if an IP address changes, but you have a number of
hostnames all pointing to the same place.
There are a number of programs that can be used to retrieve information from DNS
servers. The most common ones are dig, nslookup, and host. Each of these can request
information generally using the configured local or caching server, or can go directly
to a specific name server. While you can use these utilities, they are all command line
programs. If you prefer a graphical interface, there are programs that offer that. There are
also Web sites that you can use to perform DNS lookups. In order to determine the name
server for a particular domain, you could use any of these utilities or you could use whois,
which we used previously to look up other information about who particular domains
were registered to.

27

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

If you perform a whois query on a domain name, one of the pieces of information
you will get back will be the name servers that are assigned to that domain. You can see
this in Figure 3-2. The figure shows a whois lookup of apress.com. At the bottom of the
response are the name servers that are associated with the domain. One of them is ns1.
rackspace.com and the other is ns2.rackspace.com. Looking at the hostnames, we can
deduce that the service provider handling DNS for Apress is Rackspace. Anytime you
want to figure out what DNS server to check to get the authoritative information directly
from the source, you can use whois to get the name servers for that domain.

Figure 3-2. Whois query for name servers
The utility dig is really useful, though the output can be a little challenging to parse
if you aren’t familiar with what you are looking at. However, dig can be used to extract
different records on the command line. Figure 3-3 shows the use of dig. This particular
request is looking for the mail exchanger (MX) record. This tells us the hostname for
the system that is responsible for receiving mail for the domain. Every domain will have
at least one MX record. Knowing the hostname from the MX record will tell you which
system you need to interact with if you want to perform penetration testing against the
organization's receiving mail server using the simple mail transfer protocol (SMTP).

28

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

Figure 3-3. Using dig
The responses we care most about are in the answer section. The data displayed
in this section tells us that for the domain apress.com, mail is handled by mail server
infrastructure that is operated by Google, or at least appears to be. This may tell us
something else about their infrastructure. In the additional section, dig helpfully looked
up the IP addresses associated with the hostnames from the answer section. You can see
that these are all A records, or address records. If you had an IP address and you wanted a
hostname from it, you would be looking for a PTR (pointer) record. A CNAME record, or
canonical name, is really just an alias. For example, you may set web.apress.com to have
a CNAME entry of www.apress.com. This means that if you need to change the IP address
for those two hosts, all you need to do is change the www.apress.com address, since any
check for web.apress.com will be forced to do an A record lookup for www.apress.com, as
it holds the address. Web.apress.com is just a reference to a different hostname.
Dig is a very powerful utility for DNS lookups, but it is not the only one. While dig
and nslookup may both be installed on Unix-like operating systems, dig is not generally
available on Windows systems. As a result, it’s worth looking at nslookup. To perform the
preceding lookup, you can see the steps on Figure 3-4.

29

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

Figure 3-4. Using nslookup
Using nslookup, the first thing I need to do is set the record type that I am looking
for. In this case, I am looking for MX records, so I set my type to MX. Once I have done
that, all I need to do is enter the domain name, and nslookup will do the lookup for me.
You can query name servers directly. As an example, if I wanted to go to the authoritative
server for Apress directly using dig, I would add @ns.rackspace.com onto the end of my
command. Similarly, with nslookup, I can just tell it the server that I want to go to, and it
will query that server rather than the DNS server that is configured on my system. Once I
am in nslookup, I can set the server, and nslookup will send all queries to that server until
the server is changed or we quit the program. This allows me to check directly on one
server so as to avoid any issues with cached entries on the local server.

Transport Protocols and Ports
The Internet Protocol (IP) is a network layer protocol. If you are unfamiliar with the
different protocol layers, you should look up the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI)
model. Sitting on top of IP are transport layer protocols. Commonly, those are the
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and the User Datagram Protocol (UDP). Each of
these protocols serves a different function. If you absolutely, positively have to get it
there and you want to know that it got there, you would use TCP. This is sort of like using
delivery confirmation when you go to the post office. You get something like a delivery
receipt. If you simply don’t care and just want to toss it out in the wind, you would use
UDP. Using UDP, you get a slight speed advantage because there isn’t all the overhead of
making sure you know that your messages are received on the other end. Using TCP, you
make sure no packet is left behind.

30

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

Each of the transport layer protocols needs a way to multiplex traffic, so that multiple
communication exchanges can take place simultaneously, even on a single computer. It
does this through the use of ports. When packets are sent between computers (or even
on a single computer), each packet is labeled by the source and destination ports, so the
computer can keep track of which communication exchange it is a part of. If we didn’t
have ports, the system would have no idea what to associate an inbound message with.
Using ports, the operating system knows what application should be getting any messages
that are being received. It’s pretty obvious that this would be true on the server side, but
it's also true on the client side. When the server responds, it has to structure its response
so the client computer will be able to direct the packet to the correct application. As a
result, the server makes use of the source port in the arriving message to become the
destination port in the return message. The source ports used by the outgoing messages
are not reused across applications, which is why the operating system knows how to get
back to the sending application with the return messages. However, even though the
operating system will keep track of this information, those ports are not considered open,
and so they would never show up as listening. When you remotely scan a system, you will
never see ports that were just used as source ports for a connection to another system.

Port Scanning
Port scanning allows us to find ports that are actively listening for connections from the
rest of the Internet. This means that an application has bound to that port and indicated
to the operating system that it is prepared to accept connections on that port. You can
do port scanning manually through the use of a program like the telnet client or netcat
to connect to ports one at a time, but the easiest and best way is to make use of a portscanning program that automates the process across the tens of thousands of available
ports. There are several, but the one that is most widely used is nmap. The purpose of a
port-scanning program is to communicate with the target system to trigger a response
indicating whether the port is listening or not listening, which a port scanner would
do. This is dependent on the transport protocol you are using. TCP and UDP behave
in completely different ways. This is because TCP is a connection-oriented protocol,
which is necessary to ensure the guaranteed delivery promised. UDP, in contrast,
is connectionless. A port scanner will take advantage of how the different transport
protocols work to make determinations about ports that are open (listening) or closed
(not listening). As a result, it’s useful to have a basic understanding of what TCP does
about establishing connections between systems. In order to establish a connection from
one system to another, TCP uses what is called a three-way handshake.
The three-way handshake does a couple of things. First, it establishes that there is
someone on the other end listening. This could be done with a two-way handshake, so
it also guarantees that the purported sender is there and that the communication isn’t
being faked, often called being spoofed. Once we know that the systems in question are in
place and available to communicate, the other thing that the three-way handshake does
is set up some necessary information to ensure that messages get received correctly and
in the right order.

31

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

There are two header fields that are used to ensure messages are sent and received
in the right order. These are the sequence number and the acknowledgement number,
and they are two separate sides to the same coin. The sequence number is what gets sent
to indicate where we are in the sequence. The acknowledgment is sent back to indicate
on the other end which messages have been received. So, if I have sent 100 bytes, for
instance, my sequence number will be that 100. If the other end has received all of them,
the acknowledgment number will be 101 to indicate which byte it is expecting to see next.
The three-way handshake can be used in two different ways using nmap. The first is
a SYN scan, also called a half-open scan. Before we go into what that is, let’s take a look at
what a three-way handshake actually looks like. We’re going to go pretty quickly through
some concepts that will help you start to get a better understanding of the different types of
scans and how they work. If you want to understand more deeply, there are a lot of resources
online that will provide you a far deeper understanding of the TCP/IP protocol suite.
In Figure 3-5, you can see a client laptop on the left talking to another system on
the right. The client system sends a message with the synchronization (SYN) flag set.
Additionally, there is a TCP field for the sequence number that is set as part of this
message. This is called the initial sequence number (ISN), and it is used to establish
not only the sequence of the messages that are sent but also that messages are received.
The receiving system, which you may think of as a server, responds by setting the
acknowledgment flag (ACK) indicating that the message was received. Along with the
ACK flag, it sets the acknowledgment number field to be one above the sequence number
that was received. This tells the client side, in this instance, which byte number it expects
next. In addition to the ACK flag and number, the server also establishes its own side of
the communication by initializing its own sequence number that the client will need. As a
result, it sets the SYN flag and sequence number.

Figure 3-5. Three-way handshake
The server could use two separate messages to send both the SYN and the ACK,
but it’s more compact in terms of the communication stream to put both messages into
a single packet. Now, the client has indicated that it would like to communicate and
established the parameters for communication. The server has responded, indicating that
it is open for business and has acknowledged the client. The final step in establishing a
two-way communications channel is for the client to acknowledge the server. Once that
happens, using an ACK flag and an acknowledgment number to indicate that the sequence
number was received, the three-way handshake is complete, and the two parties are ready
to send and receive messages, incrementing sequence numbers and acknowledgment
numbers as needed based on the number of bytes that are being transmitted.

32

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

TCP Scanning
One of the common scan techniques is the SYN scan, sometimes called a half-open scan.
In a SYN scan, the system running the scanner sends out SYN messages to the target.
The target will respond either with a SYN/ACK to indicate that the port is open or with
a message that has the reset (RST) flag set to indicate that the communication needs to
be reset or shut down. Either of these responses will tell the scanner the state of the port,
which can then be communicated to the user.
There is one other possibility with this scan, or any other type of scan you may use. If
the scanner doesn’t get any response at all, that could mean a couple of things. The first
is that the system is down. Some scanners, like nmap, will send out an Internet control
message protocol (ICMP) echo request to determine whether the system is up or not. If
the system responds to the echo request with an echo reply and the port doesn’t respond,
it means that either the scanning packet, or the response to the scanning packet, is being
dropped. With TCP, since it’s connection oriented, the message will be resent a number
of times to ensure that the message wasn’t simply dropped in transit. If, after a number of
retries, there is still no answer, the scanner will assume that the packet is being dropped
by some sort of filter. As a result, you will get responses that indicate the port is being
filtered, which may mean there is something there but that there is just a firewall in
the way.
By default, a scanner like nmap will only scan a limited number of ports. There are
roughly 1000 well-known ports that nmap will scan by default. If you want to scan more
than that, you can provide a comma-separated list or a range. You can also just tell nmap
to scan all 65,536 ports by adding a -p- to the command line, as seen in Figure 3-6. The
more ports you scan, the longer it will take for the scan to complete, which is one reason
why nmap defaults to the ports that are most likely to be used. The scan in Figure 3-6 is
a SYN scan against the default gateway on the local network here. There are three ports
that are showing as open and a single port showing as closed. Typically, you won’t see
closed ports in the list, since there isn’t any reason to show the closed ports. If they don’t
show up, they are assumed to be closed. In this case, it’s not clear from just the nmap
scan results as to why the closed port is being displayed. In order to determine why nmap
didn’t just ignore the closed port, you would have to see the packets that were exchanged.

Figure 3-6. nmap scan

33

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

Since what we are doing is a half-open scan, we are putting the target system into a
state of having a half-open connection, meaning there is a port that is waiting for the final
acknowledgment. In order to prevent having the system sitting there utilizing resources
holding ports open, nmap does the polite thing by sending a RST message to the target
system to indicate that it should shut down the communication and not expect anything
further. A lot of half-open connections may be noticed, since a half-open connection may
be an indication of a SYN flood. A half-open connection is one where the SYN message
has been received and an ACK sent but the return ACK hasn’t been received. Another
TCP scan uses –sT rather than –sS. This is a connect scan, meaning that it goes through
the entire three-way handshake to create the open connection, then to tear it down. This
is a bit more polite, but it also increases the total number of messages being sent between
the scanner and the target.

SYN floods are created by sending a lot of SYN messages, leaving a lot of half-open
connections on a system. The operating system on the target may only have a limited number
of slots available for these half-open connections, so it’s possible to put the target into a state
where it can’t accept any additional connection requests, causing a denial of service.
There are other types of scans that use TCP as the transport protocol and make use
of other flags built into TCP, but the SYN scan and the connect scan will generally provide
you with what you need for information about open and closed ports. Other scans were
once helpful at evading detection, but unless you are working against a network with very
outdated equipment, the other types of scans are unlikely to provide you details that are
much different from the two most common scans.

UDP Scanning
While most services you would commonly connect to use TCP as the transport protocol,
not all of them do. Some of them, such as DNS, NTP, and Syslog, use UDP instead. The
difference with a UDP scan is that there is no defined pattern of initiating communication.
In the case of TCP, you send a SYN message and the port responds indicating that it is
either open or closed. This is well defined in the protocol. In the case of UDP, it’s intended
to be fast and connectionless. This means that the application needs to handle things like
message order and determining whether a message has been received or not.
If nmap sends a message to a UDP port and doesn’t get an answer back, it doesn’t
mean anything. It could mean the port is closed and not responding. It could mean
that the message was dropped. It could mean that there is an application there but the
application doesn’t usually send a response to the message that it received. As a result,
nmap will have to continue to retry the port until it gets an answer or just gives up, and
the fact that it gave up may or may not actually mean anything useful. With TCP, there are
timing rules associated with the retries. This includes backoff timers to make sure you
are waiting a variable length of time in case it’s just a timing thing and you’re running
into congestion somewhere. With UDP, all of this is entirely up to the application, with no
consistent rules.

34

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

Using nmap, you would do a UDP port scan using the flag “–sU”. You can also specify
the ports to try just as you would with a TCP scan. Both TCP and UDP scans allow you to
set the speed at which you scan using the throttle parameter “-T.” You can set numbers
up to 5, where 3 is the default. Lower throttle numbers slow the communication down,
which may help you be less detectable to your target. Higher throttle numbers cause the
communication to go faster. Your scan will be done quicker, but you will be sending a
lot of traffic in a very short amount of time to your target, which may be noticeable to a
vigilant defender.

There are a number of other scan types that you can do with nmap, though the basic TCP
and UDP scans are pretty common. Some of the others include setting different flags within
the TCP headers, like a FIN scan or an XMAS scan. The FIN scan sets the finish (FIN) flag. The
XMAS scan sets a number of other oddball flags that you wouldn’t ever see set at the same
time. With all of the flags set, it is said to make the packet light up like a Christmas tree.

Operating System and Version Scanning
There is a lot of information that nmap can get for you, and as you get more experienced
with it, you can even write scripts that nmap can run for you. One piece of information
that may be very useful is the operating system name and version. In Figure 3-7, you
can see an example of an operating system scan, which is requested using “–O” as a
parameter.
You can do an operating system scan in conjunction with another scan like a SYN
scan. Nmap makes use of a database of fingerprints that is maintained by the nmap
developers to identify the target operating system. It makes use of behavior associated
with open and closed ports and initial sequence numbers as well as other behaviors
associated with the network communication and protocols. In the case shown here, the
scan correctly identifies the target operating system but mis-identifies its version. Not
having the version correct suggests that there may not be fingerprints yet for the newer
versions of the operating system that was scanned.

35

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

Figure 3-7. nmap operating system scan
In addition to determining the operating system in use, nmap is also capable of
determining the application and version that is running. It does this by attempting to
extract information from the exchange with the service. In order to perform a version
scan, you can supply -sV to nmap. If you were to supply -A as a parameter, it would do
both a version scan and an operating system scan.

High-Speed Scanning
nmap is not the only scanner that is available, though it is very widely used. There are
other scanners like masscan that have been created to do very large network scans
very quickly. A tool like nmap can scan large address blocks, but it wasn’t developed
exclusively with that function in mind. As a result, nmap is perfectly capable of doing
large scans, but if you have enormous address blocks to scan, you may want to consider
a scanner that is especially developed for the job. Since nmap is so widely considered
the default scanner to use, newer scanners like masscan have implemented the same
command line parameters so as to be compatible. massscan is a port scanner that has
been developed specifically for high-speed scanning of large networks. Since you are
doing the same job, there is no particular reason to reinvent the wheel. You specify your
targets, your ports, and the scan types in the same way as in nmap. Using masscan, you
can also set the speed in packets per second. Since masscan doesn’t use the system
network stack to create and send packets, it can go very, very fast. In the case of a Linux
system running on the hardware, meaning not in a virtual machine, it is said to be able
to send more than a million and a half packets per second. This may be enough to cause
significant problems on your network, so be sure you have a very good reason to run at
that speed and that you have notified anyone responsible for the network you are testing
from in order to protect against outages. This is especially true if you are on or are testing
a customer’s network.

36

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

Grabbing Banners
Another function that nmap can do is to grab banners. This means that it connects to
the application port and gets any messages that the server application sends out on that
connection. These are called banners or welcome messages. Sometimes you can get the
name of the application as well as the version number from them.
Identifying applications and versions is helpful, because by using the application
and version number you can look up vulnerabilities that might be exploited. There are
a number of places that you can look up this information, including with each vendor,
but you can also use the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project. You can
get to the database that the CVE project maintains at cve.mitre.org. The CVE project
is a vendor-neutral way of keeping track of software vulnerabilities. Their database will
give you a way to look up problems in a single place. The CVE repository is one place for
getting that information. It’s not the only one, but it’s been around for more than fifteen
years now and is pretty comprehensive.
While nmap is capable of determining the name and version of the application, you
may prefer to interact directly with the application server yourself. One program that can
be used to do that is the telnet client. The word telnet is a little weird in that it can refer to
the client, the server, or the protocol. In our case, we are going to make use of the program
that you would typically use to connect to a telnet server. That’s not the only function that
this little Swiss army knife is capable of performing, however. In reality, the telnet client
is really just a program that initiates a TCP connection to any port that you would like. If
you don’t specify a port, it defaults to port 23, which is the default port that a telnet server
would listen on. If you connect to a telnet server, the client will do all of the negotiation
for the telnet application protocol for you. If you specify another port, however, the telnet
client will just leave you with a raw connection to the application listening at that port. In
Figure 3-8, you can see a connection to the Web server at Google using the telnet client.

Figure 3-8. Using the telnet client

37

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

Once you have used telnet to establish a connection to the server, you will need
to know some protocol commands in order to entice a response. Some connections,
like that to an SSH server, don’t require any knowledge of the protocol at all. It will just
provide you the version, as you can see next. With nothing other than the connection, the
SSH server provided its protocol version as well as the name of the application and its
version:
telnet 172.30.42.23 22
Trying 172.30.42.23...
Connected to 172.30.42.23.
Escape character is '^]'.
SSH-2.0-OpenSSH_6.9
Not all servers are like that, however, as you can see in Figure 3-8. Even when the
correct protocol is used, the server only provides the name of the server. In this case,
we indicate that we are looking for the default Web page at the root of the server using
“protocol version 1.1” by using the command GET / HTTP/1.1. Beyond that, we indicate
the hostname that we are looking for, since version 1.1 of the HTTP protocol provides
the possibility of virtual servers on a single IP address. All we get back in return, though,
is that this is gws, which we just happen to know is the “Google Web Server.” No version
number. This is a safe way to operate, of course, but not all software is so parsimonious
when it comes to information.
The telnet client is only capable of using TCP for the transport protocol. If you want
to use UDP, you will need to use a different program altogether. One such program, netcat,
is also capable of using TCP, just as the telnet client is. It’s also capable of being used as a
listener on either UDP or TCP on any port that you specify. In Figure 3-9, you can see an
example using netcat to connect to a UDP server. For the sake of demonstration, the server
that netcat is connecting to is a simple Python script that just replies with received when a
message arrives. Real-world UDP services won’t respond as easily, or their communication
will be in binary and not be human-readable.

Figure 3-9. Using netcat with UDP
In order to use UDP with netcat, you specify –u on the command line. Otherwise,
netcat defaults to using TCP as the transport protocol. Netcat also supports either IPv4
or IPv6, which makes it quite versatile as more enterprises begin to implement IPv6 in
their networks. Service providers haven’t been as good about allowing IPv6 to pass from
a client through their network. As a result, it would be unlikely for you to do any remote
IPv6 testing of a client. However, you may very well perform testing from inside a client
network at times, and so you may need to use IPv6.

38

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

Summary
As you start your penetration testing, you will want to find systems on your target
network. Once you have found the systems that are responsive, you want to find open
ports. The open ports will tell you what applications are listening on those systems, since
you can’t have a port that’s open without there being an application listening on that
port. Before we get to checking for open ports, though, you need to understand how IP
addresses map to hostnames and vice versa. There are several tools that can be used with
DNS to look up information about the target domain. This includes different types of host
records, like mail exchangers. A lot of information is also associated with domain names,
though sometimes that information is private. You can potentially get names and e-mail
addresses that you may be able to use later on in a social engineering attack. On top of
that, you can get the name server associated with the domain, which may tell you a little
something about the infrastructure that the company is using.
While nmap is the most common port scanner and has been around for more than
fifteen years, it is not the only one that is available. Most of the scanners that are available
do the same sort of things that nmap does, though some of them are designed to be faster
in the case of scanning large blocks of IP addresses at the same time. Using nmap, you
can scan for TCP and UDP ports as well as determine the underlying operating system.
While UDP scans are pretty straightforward, you can do multiple TCP scan types. This
includes setting different TCP flags in order to potentially evade protections or detections.
Once you have the open ports identified, you will want to determine the application
and the version if you can. While you can use nmap to gather some of this information for
you, you can also do it yourself using the telnet client or by using a program like netcat.
Using these programs, you can initiate a connection yourself to the listening service, and
then if you send protocol commands to the server, you can typically get responses back.
Not all services are text based, which means you may not be able to just send simple
commands. Instead, you may need to make use of a program that can send the binary
messages for you, or you can write a simple program yourself that can do it. Sometimes
you just want to be able to verify the responses that the automatic tools are providing.
This is another reason why you may want to use manual techniques like telnet or netcat.

Exercises
1.

Get the mail exchanger record for your own personal or
corporate domain using both nslookup and dig. If necessary,
use gmail.com as the domain you are doing the lookup on.

2.

Get the hostname associated with the IP addresses 4.2.2.1
and 8.8.8.8.

3.

Get the IP address associated with the Web server hostname
for your company. Once you have the IP address from the
hostname, do a reverse lookup on the IP address to see what
the corresponding hostname is.

39

CHAPTER 3 ■ WHAT’S OPEN?

40

4.

Perform a SYN scan on all of the hosts on your local network.
Most network devices for home use provide a /24 network,
meaning it provides a netmask of 255.255.255.0. In order to
scan the entire network, you can provide the network address
followed by either a network mask or the number of bits in the
subnet, as in /24. If your network is on 192.168.1.0, you would
scan 192.168.1.0/24, as an example.

5.

Perform a full-connect TCP scan on your network using nmap
or a tool of your choice. See if you get any differences from the
SYN scan.

6.

Perform a UDP scan on your local network using nmap or a
tool of your choice. Compare the time it took for the UDP scan
to the time it took to do the TCP scans.

CHAPTER 4

Vulnerabilities
If you have been following along from chapter to chapter, you now have some IP
addresses for systems that are responding to connection attempts. You also have a list of
ports that are open on those systems. The next thing you want to do is figure out exactly
how you might be able to get into those systems. You need to know what vulnerabilities
might be associated with the applications behind those ports.
We know that if there is an open port, there is an application listening on it. Ports
don’t just magically open, and if the port isn’t open, the operating system will simply
reset the connection. This means that if you get a response to a connection attempt on
a TCP connection, you know there is a program sitting there waiting for you to respond.
It’s slightly more complicated with a UDP application, however, since there is no defined
response to messages sent to a UDP port. The UDP protocol specifications make no
comment about what to do if there is a communication on an open port. Essentially,
based on the protocol definition, the response is entirely left up to the application and not
to the operating system at all.
There is a good chance that your scan turned up open ports, whether they are TCP,
UDP, or some of each. The port numbers, as well as any banners that you collected, will
be of some use as you try to figure out where to go from here. The next step is to look for
vulnerabilities. While there are ways to do this manually, the best way to do it is to use a
vulnerability scanner. If you are working for a company and you have a decent budget, there
are some excellent commercial scanners. However, if you just want to do some learning and
investigating on your own, or if you have a very small organization with little to no budget,
there are open source and very low cost scanners that are very good and easy to use.
Before we get to looking at these scanners, we’ll review what a vulnerability is
and investigate some ways to identify one. This will include looking at some common
scanners and how they can be used.

What Is a Vulnerability?
Before you can go looking for something, you should know what it is. A vulnerability is
simply a weakness in a system, whether that system is a piece of software, a hardware
design, or a network. There are a lot of reasons why you may find vulnerabilities. It may
simply be a misconfiguration, where unnecessary features have been enabled that can
be used in malicious ways. One example is accidentally turning on anonymous FTP,
which might allow someone to upload a large volume of data that could cause the disk

© Ric Messier 2016
R. Messier, Penetration Testing Basics, DOI 10.1007/978-1-4842-1857-0_4

41

CHAPTER 4 ■ VULNERABILITIES

to fill up. That same misconfiguration could allow sensitive data to be extracted from
the FTP server if that server had access to sensitive data and was intended to require
authentication before users could get access. Complex software with a lot of configuration
settings, including Web servers and Java application servers, to name just a couple of
examples, are open to these sorts of misconfigurations.
Misconfiguration is not the only possibility when it comes to vulnerabilities.
Misconfigurations do not always lead to the ability to do something interesting with the
system. This is where we want software bugs that can be exploited to do interesting things.
There are a lot of different bug types that can lead to system exploitation. One of the most
enduring and most common is the buffer overflow. A buffer is a chunk of memory for
storing data. In this case, it would be a chunk of memory to store a piece of data provided
by a user. The buffer is set at a fixed size, and if the user sends more data than is expected,
the subsequent memory spaces are then filled in with the excess. This is a result of some
programming languages, most notoriously the C programming language, that have no
input constraints. Since the input buffers are stored on a memory structure called a stack,
and the address of the location in memory where the program is meant to return to is also
stored in memory, this particular type of vulnerability opens the door for the attacker to
control the flow of execution by manipulating the return address, forcing the program to
go to a set of code controlled by the attacker. Figure 4-1 shows a simple diagram of a stack.
At the top is the memory buffer. Once the space allocated for the buffer is used up, the rest
starts to flow into everything below it, including addresses that have been saved so as to
return the flow of execution back to the calling memory segment.

Figure 4-1. Stack using a buffer

42

CHAPTER 4 ■ VULNERABILITIES

There are ways to fix this type of vulnerability, including making the stack non-executable.
You can also use something called a stack canary, which is a random value that is checked
prior to returning execution to the calling area in memory. If the canary is what it is
expected to be, the return address is considered safe. If the canary has been altered, the
program would halt rather than having control return to code that an attacker may have
uploaded into the running program.
Rather than going through an exhaustive list of all of the different types of
vulnerabilities, we’re going to stop at the buffer overflow because it’s such a classic and
endures today. You may want to look at other subjects, such as race conditions, heap
overflows, integer overflows, and various injection attacks. You can see that overflows
are pretty common. Mostly, any time a program takes input from a user, the user input
should be considered entirely untrustworthy, but programmers don’t always do that. Or,
in the process of trying to do the right thing, they might inadvertently open the door to
something else. Either way, there are a lot of different types of vulnerabilities. The Open
Web Application Security Project (OWASP) keeps track of the common vulnerabilities
each year. While OWASP is generally focused on Web application security, the different
vulnerability classes typically exist across application types.
Other organizations, like the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT), also
track top vulnerabilities, though unlike OWASP, which includes types of vulnerabilities,
CERT lists specific vulnerabilities. A list like the one that CERT has is based on actual
attacks. They create the list from information they have about attacks that have been
reported. The list ends up being all of the essential vulnerabilities that need to be
addressed by an organization right away as a result of known attacks. There are other
organizations that have similar lists.

Vulnerability Scanners
Now that we know, more or less, what a vulnerability is, we should start looking for some.
After all, we need to find ways into the system in order to earn our paycheck, and we do
that by exploiting vulnerabilities. You can certainly go through a lot of manual effort in
order to find these vulnerabilities, but it’s far easier if you make use of scanners; there are
several of them available. The possibilities range from very high end commercial scanners
to open source scanners, with plenty of choices in between. Vulnerability scanners have
been around since the 1990s. One of the earliest was the Security Administrator Tool for
Analyzing Networks (SATAN). SATAN was developed by Dan Farmer and Wietse Venema
in the mid-1990s. Farmer and Venema are both renowned for other security-related
projects they have been involved with. Farmer started with the Computer Oracle and
Password Scanner, which included some specialized checks for vulnerabilities.

SATAN came with a little script that would allow you to change all instances of the word
satan into santa for people who might be offended by the name satan. The current
commercial scanner SAINT was based on SATAN. The Security Auditor’s Research Assistant
(SARA) was also a follow-on to SATAN.

43

CHAPTER 4 ■ VULNERABILITIES

Vulnerability scanners work by running a number of tests against the systems
and software. This may include running port scans to find open ports and listening
applications. It will also check to see what the operating system is. Based on this data,
the vulnerability scanner will determine whether there are potential vulnerabilities.
It does not actually exploit any of these vulnerabilities. It also can’t locate unknown
vulnerabilities. If there is a flaw in a piece of software that hasn’t been reported to date,
the scanner can’t identify it as a problem. This includes what are commonly known as
zero-day attacks. Zero-days are software bugs where an exploit has been developed but
the vulnerability has not been disclosed to the software vendor so it can be fixed. As a
result, installations of the software are vulnerable to attack by the holder of the zeroday until the vendor becomes aware of the vulnerability and develops a fix that can be
installed.
Vulnerability scanners operate from a database or a collection of modules. These
collections of tests need to be updated on a regular basis in order to keep up with the
volume of vulnerabilities that exist. The reality is that software bugs are being found
constantly, including in software that is very old.

One notable bug in recent years is ShellShock, which is a vulnerability in the Bourne-again
shell (bash). This is a vulnerability that has existed for about twenty years but was not
discovered until recently. Just because a piece of software or an operating system is old
doesn’t mean there aren’t new bugs to be found.
For the past couple of decades, there has been a debate within the security
community regarding researchers and bug hunters and how they should interact with
software vendors when they find a bug. Many software vendors have long preferred
to have as much time as they need to repair the bug before anything about the flaw is
disclosed to the public. Once the issue is disclosed, the details can be used by malicious
users to create and utilize an exploit before the flaw is repaired by the vendor. It would
be unethical to release details that could be used to expose innocent and unsuspecting
users. However, it’s also unethical for a vendor to not repair a vulnerability that they have
been informed about. As a result, there is a middle ground. Companies like Microsoft are
willing to work with researchers and allow the researcher to take the credit for the find.
They also have a process for verifying bugs and getting them resolved. Other companies
are not as good about timely resolution of issues and are generally well known in the
security community for not resolving issues and not working well with researchers.
There are mailing lists like Bugtraq and Full Disclosure where announcements are
often made related to issues found by third parties like bug hunters and researchers. In
addition to learning about the bugs that are being disclosed by third parties, you may also
learn about proof-of-concept code that can be used to exploit these vulnerabilities.

44

CHAPTER 4 ■ VULNERABILITIES

Scanning for Vulnerabilities
It’s important to note here that while vulnerability scanners do not actually run exploits to
determine whether a system is vulnerable, there is always the possibility that you could
impact the running of a system. Just the act of scanning can potentially cause system or
application failure. You should really provide plenty of notice to system owners before you
scan them so they can be prepared in case of an impact. Exploit frameworks like Canvas,
Core Impact, and Metasploit can be used to verify vulnerabilities.
There are a number of vulnerability scanners. You can buy software scanners or
appliances. You can make use of open source solutions or you can simply buy a service
where the provider does the scanning for you over the Internet or through a private
network connection and then provides you with the results. We’re going to focus on
Nessus, Nexpose, and OpenVAS here. Primarily, the reason for looking at these is because
they are readily available and have free versions. Once you get familiar with how these
work, you should be able to pick up any other scanner you run across.
When you are performing vulnerability scanning, there are a few things to understand.
The scanner will go through all of the possible vulnerabilities based on both the configuration
you have provided and its stored database of published vulnerabilities. Every scanner will
have different sets of configuration options. Some are more detailed than others. Additionally,
over time different scanners have changed their options and the way you configure them. In
Figure 4-2, you can see a section of the options for an advanced scan in Nessus. Nessus has
been around a long time and is a well-respected vulnerability scanner. It began life as an open
source scanner that had a standalone client. Currently, you configure Nessus with a Web
interface that continues to evolve. Products like Nessus may change their interface over time.
At some point, the interface may change from what you see in this screen capture.

Figure 4-2. Nessus options

45

